Sports simulations are a major game genre, but they commonly lack two 
things: gags and girls. Yet game players are mostly teenage boys, the 
very people for whom Hollywood produces films like Porkey's and Police 
Academy 1-6, so why not give them what they want? 

                         BATTLING BIMBOS! 

Ever wondered what TV sports will be like in 2006 AD? When there are 
dozens of satellite channels and deregulation is complete? When the 
majors have bought up every important event, from the Olympics to the 
World Cup, and the other stations have to be more inventive?... 

Here it is, the top-rating sports show on BSE-TV, "Battling Bimbos!"

It's a spoof of every sports program you ever sat through. There's a 
pair of airhead sportscasters in the studio, cheerleaders on the 
field, a plastic-toothed reporter on the scene who keeps losing her 
earphone, and (of course) tantrums from the competitors. 

There are even spoof adverts, and locker room interviews which must 
be seen to be believed. 

                         BATTLING BIMBOS! 

Your aim is to help your girlfriend (or girlfriends if two people are
playing) win through the heats of the Bimbolympics, and eventually 
win the finals. You select her from a screen at the start. 

Her rivals at every stage are five other bimbos (cute cartoon girls), 
who all take part in six sports. These are based loosely on athletics 
events, but have more than a little bit of "It's a Knockout" (Jeux 
sans Frontieres) about them. 

The cartoon girls are dressed differently and appropriately for each 
sport, and are drawn in the cutesy Japanese animation style, as seen 
in e.g "LUM" magazine (amongst thousands of places). 

                         BATTLING BIMBOS! 

The sports are: Swimming, Running Race, Bucket Race, Obstacle Race, 
Underwater Netball and Trampoline Gymnastics. 

Unfortunately, your girlfriend is not very good at sports, so getting 
her into the first two, who go through to the next round, relies on 
you cheating on her behalf... 

SWIMMING RACE. 

The bikini-clad competitors swim backwards and forwards across the 
screen. Your bimbo swims slowly, but can be speeded up if you waggle 
the joystick in time with her strokes. 

If you press FIRE, the music changes to something like the "Jaws" 
theme as a small fish emerges from its lair. Steer the fish to one of 
the competing bimbos, press FIRE again and it grabs her bikini top. 

The bimbo squeals and raises her hands to hide her breasts, which we 
don't actually see of course. (This is the central image around which 
the game is based.) She splashes slowly to the side where, after a 
delay, she gets a replacement costume and can resume the race. 
Meanwhile the fish tows the bikini to its lair and you get to speed 
up your girlfriend. Once the fish is back, you can summon it again. 

RUNNING RACE. 

The long-skirted competitors walk around an oval track, which is seen 
very much side-on so it all fits in about half the screen height. You 
control your competitor much as above, but this time if you press fire 
air whooshes from grills set into the track at intervals. 

Any bimbo caught exactly over a grill squeals and stops, pushing her 
skirt down Marilyn-Monroe-style, and it takes her some time to speed up 
again. There is a limited supply of air, which is slowly replenished. 

(Note: any of these race games could scroll, if you prefer). 

UNDERWATER NETBALL 

The cheerleader-style competitors stand on the left of the screen, 
bounce, and throw netballs towards a hoop on the right. Unfortunately, 
your girlfriend is quite useless and throws the ball at random. 

You can fire tennis balls from the centre of the floor, and deflect 
her balls back into the hoop. 

And the underwater part? The last bimbos to 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 
respectively get dropped, squealing, into a tank of water. 

BUCKET RACE. 

The t-shirted competitors run across the screen, filling buckets with 
water on the right hand side and carrying it to measuring cylinders 
on the left. Several trips are needed to win. 

Above the track are about a dozen other buckets, each of which will tip 
up at a random moment and pour its water onto whoever is below, with 
similar effects to in the swimming game. (The buckets slowly refill). 
You can tip the full buckets by steering a little hand onto them and 
pressing FIRE. 

OBSTACLE RACE. 

The wet-suited competitors teeter across an assault-course style 
scrolling track, with swings, crawls, and balance beams above muddy 
pits. But nothing is too high, or at all dangerous-looking. 

You are armed with the jet of water from a hose. 

TRAMPOLINE GYMNASTICS. 

The competitors, in tank tops and hot pants, bounce up and down on 
six small adjacent trampolines. They score points for gymnastic 
manoeuvres, and you can select the difficulty level of those attempted 
by your bimbo. 

Finally, in what I admit as a solitary lapse from the high standards 
of good taste shown by this game, you are armed with a gun which 
fires custard pies. 

                         BATTLING BIMBOS! 

This game pleads guilty to being a bit sexist - but less so than all 
these macho genocide games. But it is in no sense too rude: there can 
be as much or as little nudity as you like. 

It has a unique mix of excitement, humour and sexy bimbos. Unique to 
computer games, that is. We are following where a large proportion of 
video movies have already led. 

Finally, for the intellectuals amongst us, there is the liking device 
of BSE-TV and its spoof cast of incompetents. "Battling Bimbos" could 
be THE game of 1990/1991!    Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing Ltd. 
