
                          THE INHERITANCE 

The Inheritance is a ghostly, graphical adventure, featuring:  
* "First person" full screen pictures, with atmospheric graphics, 
  animated scenery, startling spot effects and mobile people. 
* Point-and-click control, for simplicity. The cursor changes as 
  you move it across the picture - indicating what will happen if 
  you click on each point. 
* Complex plot, with a great many places, people and puzzles. 
* Ten-screen animated intro, whoch doubles as a running demo. 
* Midi music, plus violent digitised effects and a little speech. 

NOTE: The easy-to-use interface and graphical style of this game 
make it particularly well suited for multi-media CD-ROM versions, 
in addition to supporting the full range of traditional 16-bit PCs.  


                               STORY 

In Regency England (1810) you have inherited Hernehowe Manor, set 
vulture-like on the Cornish cliffs, above the gravs of ships. 

Unquiet spirits throng the old house; in the village lurk smugglers 
and highwaymen. Nearby a bell tolls in the chapel rumoured to be 
built by the feared and tainted Knights Templars. Sheep have been 
found torn apart and the village fears that the same fate has 
befallen a young maid that worked at the Manor.

You (as hero, or heroine) must survive a week in this ghastly old pile, 
braving deadly traps, insane villagers, murderous relatives, ghostly 
apparitions and the demonic force locked below the the old house. For 
only then will you meet the terms of a will and get ownership of the 
house and its secret: a rich seam of Cornish gold. 

The village people can be befriended to help, and ghosts can be laid 
to rest in various ways. For example, The Wet Woman of the Green room 
can be lured outside on a cold night, so she freezes and is destroyed 
by the morning sun. Others want to be reunited with loved ones, or 
confronted by prophesy fulfilled. 


                        PLAYING "THE INHERITANCE"  

This is a "first person", cursor-driven adventure, which is instantly 
easy to use and puts you right in the picture. 

The cursor is normally your right hand, or whatever you are 
carrying in your right hand (e.g a flickering torch), but it changes 
appropriately as you move it across the picture. For example... 

Where the cursor is:             What it changes to:   
   On an exit                       Directional arrow 
   Something worth looking at       Magnifying glass 
   Friendly person                  Speech bubble icon 
   Extreme left or right            "Turn" arrow 
   Bottom line of the screen        Menu icon 
   Closed front door                Animated knocking fist 
   Keyhole (if you've the key)      Animated turning key      
   Bell pull                        Animated pulling hand 

When you press fire, the indicated action is carried out. 

The only additions to this simple mechanism are for speech and 
system commands: 
* Click when the cursor is a speech bubble, and the words of words 
  of the person spoken to overlay the screen. Use up/down and fire 
  to select your reply from a menu of appropriate responses below. 
* Click when the cursor is a menu icon, and the menu window scrolls 
  up over the main screen. It shows system commands, objects carried 
  in your pockets and status, and it works much as you would expect. 


                         EXAMPLE OF PLAY 
                    
Above the fire in the library is an ornamental crest. Move the cursor 
there (it changes to a magnifying glass) and press fire to open a 
window with a large picture of the crest. 

Attached to the crest is an ornamental sword. The cursor is now a 
return symbol (because pressing fire would return you to the room), 
but it changes to a clutching hand when you move it onto the sword. 
Do this and press fire to take the sword. 

Return to the room, move the cursor (which now normally shows the 
sword, except when you move it somewhere special) over the door to 
the Smoking room (it changes to an exit arrow) and press fire to go 
there. 
 
There's a statue in front of you. Move the (sword) cursor onto the 
statue's hand (it waves to show this is a special place) and press 
fire to place the sword there. The sword's weight causes a secret 
panel to open and the game continues! 


                         IN CONCLUSION 

This story combines the rich folklore and legends of the storm-swept 
Cornish coastline, with a search for treasure and secrets from beyond 
the grave. 

This game with its brooding atmospheric graphics and many interactive 
animated characters, both living and dead, all easily accessed by the 
ever-changing pointer will appeal to both the first-time player and 
the more seasoned gamer. 

All the graphics are large and detailed, with animation, shock effects 
and midi music. So "The Inheritance" will both look and sound great. 
