









                            WATCHMEN 

INTRODUCTION: "Watchmen" is a cinematic cartoon novel copyright 
1986/87, which has had limited impact in the UK, but is reliably 
reported to be a cult book in the USA. 

The story is a bleak one, in the genre of "The Dark Knight Returns", 
and is set in the technological near future - but in a parallel world 
to ours which is on the edge of nuclear war. Its lead characters are 
the "Watchmen", former super-heroes, forced into semi-retirement when 
they lost public support and their vigilante activities became illegal. 
With one exception, these anti-heroes do not have miraculous powers - 
merely being stronger, quicker and more ruthless than you or I - and so 
they are vulnerable when a murderer discovers their secret identities 
and starts hunting them down. 

The strengths of "Watchmen" are its quality of production and artwork, 
and its many-stranded script - bulging with pessimistic but genuine 
insights into life, and hence very appealing to an adolescent audience. 
I love the way that iconic images are repeated throughout the book, 
to re-introduce each "strand" of the plot - making an effortless read 
from what might (in less skilled hands) have been merely confusing. 

It is arguably a work of genius, and worlds apart in quality from the 
usual Marvel and DC comics stuff. 

OBJECTIVES. In summary a "Watchmen" game should be... 
* True to the anti-heroes of the original. The players could choose to 
  be Rorscharch (resurrected) or Laurie Jupiter, with Nite Owl as side- 
  kick and Veidt and Dr Manhatten in walk-on parts. 
* Set in the well-developed, many-faceted world of the original. 
  This is best met by an adventure, or multi-media type product, 
  where learning about your surroundings are a major objective. 
* With impactful artwork resembling the graphic novel: strong central 
  images or (particularly on decision screens), many animated scenes 
  arranged in a page. Work on Level 9's intro sequences, and visiting 
  UK CES, has persuaded me that "first person view" scenes are more 
  dynamic and sexy than "side-on walkabout" scenes - so, while we need 
  a mix in practice, the game usually tackle graphics "head on". 
* Because "Watchmen" fans will already know the plot, this game must be 
  a sequel. Some other SF menace is threatening the city (e.g aliens 
  that eat into people and control them from inside, to fit with the 
  paranoia which is one facet of the book) and must be brutally crushed. 

                         WATCHMEN: THE GAME 

As Rorscharch or Laurie Jupiter, your first evidence that anything is 
wrong is when a friend (or casual acquaintance in Rorscharch's case) 
suddenly goes berserk and tries to kill you. Your task is to explore 
the twilight underworld of New York, track down the aliens responsible 
and find a way of defeating them. Your task will not be an easy one, 
because you are fighting aliens which can take over and control people, 
so nobody can be trusted. 

There are several elements to the game... 

1) STRATEGY MENU. This is a composite screen made up from a central 
panel showing the hero and his mood, around and behind which are 
typically four little spot-animated scenes to show events going on. 

These little pictures function both as icons and to report the story. 
There are perhaps 30 of them, based on the repeated images in the 
book, though with a lot more possible captions. You move a highlight 
above the page, and click to go to the scene represented. 

In the following example, choose the central picture panel for the 
status of the hero, the top left the city map, the top right for the 
street with the dog, bottom left for a crime scene, and bottom right 
to climb onto the roof and scan the darkness with your nightsight... 

          +--------------------+-------------------+ 
          | The city slept     |   Somewhere a dog | 
          |                    |            barked | 
          |           +--------+--------+          | 
          |           | Rorscharch was  |          | 
          +-----------+ tired           +----------+ 
          | Blood     |                 | In the   | 
          | trickled  +--------+--------+ darkness | 
          | in the gutter      |          something| 
          |                    |          stirred  | 
          +--------------------+-------------------+ 

This game includes dozens of sub-plots, many going on at any time, 
and in programming terms is not unlike "It Came From The Desert". But 
this interface is much sexier and more appropriate for a product based 
on a graphical novel. 

2) CITY MAP. A scrolling "aerial photograph" of the city. As usual, 
you move a cursor across the map and click on somewhere for details 
or to go there. 

3) INTERROGATION. The scum who inherit this twilight city appear as 
large foreground figures, as in "The Legend of Billy the Kid" when 
you talk to them. They are built up identikit-fashion, out of an 
interchangeable set of interchangeable animated parts. These people 
are used against identikit "head on" backgrounds, and a menu is used 
for talking to them and persuading them to talk.  

4) SKYSCRAPER CLIMB. A large figure of the hero is shown climbing the 
face of a skyscraper, which scrolls and is two screens high. Move the 
cursor onto their next hand/foothold, click on it and the hero will 
move their nearest hand/foot onto the hold, provided they can reach. 
If neither foot is supported, the hero slips to full-length; if 
neither hand is supported they falls. Crumbling concrete adds to the 
difficulty, and the game ends at the rooftop, where you can play... 

5) SNIPER-SCOPE game. The screen shows a monochrome roofscape, lit only 
by occasional street lights. Hidden in the gloom are people who want to 
kill you, but you can only see them by the muzzle-flashes of their guns 
(and they normally move after firing). Fortunately, you have a sniper 
scope and can move a 50-pixel circle of daylight across the roofs, 
seeing everything within the circle in colour and - of course - seeing 
any enemy hiding there. It should look quite impressive. 

6) NITE OWL flight simulator. Used in the game and as the finale. When 
the aliens come after you with heavy weapons, it is necessary to reply 
in kind. I envisage the rounded Nite Owl aircraft, weaving between 
night time skyscrapers in pursuit of enemy craft, or on strafing runs. 
The game uses sprites for the best possible appearance, and is either 
seen through the round window of the owl craft, or else has the owl 
craft itself in the foreground. I haven't decided. 

7) CAR race. An equivalent of "5" at ground level, with pedestrians to 
dodge (if innocent) or run down (if firing at you).  

8) HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT. The screen shows a group of your enemies, and 
possibly a few hostages. Massive great figures, too big for their feet 
to show on the screen. They are turning their guns towards you, but 
super-heroes react faster than mere mortals, so they appear to be in 
slow motion and you just have time to blow them away with your machine 
gun (shown in the foreground). Make sure to disable the most dangerous 
enemies first, and try to miss the hostages. 

When the screen has turned red, it cuts to first-person views of the 
corridor as you walk forwards - until the next ambush. Bloody? Yes, 
it's possibly the most overkill game concept around, but it would demo 
beautifully on video. 


Comments?                     Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing Ltd 
