A good computer game must have a popular subject, be in a popular 
genre, and have great graphics and sound:  
* When searching for a subject, b-movies are a good place to look, as 
  Cinemaware etc. have found. A cheapo movie lives or dies by its theme 
  and script, so the subject must be able to pull in the crowds. 
* A genre? Sierra sell masses of their 3D walk-about adventures, yet 
  Level 9's H.U.G.E system knocks spots off them in every way. 
* Graphics/Sound? Ancient Egypt really had style, and the music is midi. 

Put them all together and what do you have?... 


                   THE CURSE OF THE MUMMY'S TOMB! 


You play one of a pair of reporters (American and British, male and 
female), covering the excavation of an Egyptian necropolis at the 
time of the first World War.  

As events unfold, over several weeks of game time and many hours of 
playing, you explore the area and learn its secrets. You will meet 
the more notable inhabitants of this animated adventure - about 30 
of them, each with their own goals and lives. For example: 

* A rich and fanatical archeologist, whose workmen are uncovering 
more of the ruins every day. He believes that the central mummy's tomb 
holds the secret of eternal life and ignores the warnings, ominous 
portents and increasing toll of workers - dead or vanished.  

* A wise custodian has partly interpreted inscriptions from the 
time of the mummy, which tell how an immortal priest led a reign of 
blood and terror until overthrown. Other carvings, if found and taken 
to him, hint at the means to the evil one's destruction

* A fanatical religious sect worship the mummy. Their writings 
correctly identify him as a focus of plague, as well as life, and they 
plan to use this disease to wipe out "unbelievers". They are based in 
the nearby souk and are a danger to all outsiders, including you and 
your friend - who you will need to rescue later. 

* Both sides in the war plot to use the mummy's powers, both to cure 
and to spread plague through the enemy population. 

* A mysterious femme fatale, a streetwise taxi driver, a pair of 
hippy-types who got lost on the trail east, the corrupt local police. 
Etc. There are lots of sub-plots going on simultaneously and many 
people hope to use the power of the mummy for their own ends. Little 
do they guess how dangerous it is... 


                              OBJECTIVE 

The mummy is a vampire-like creature; kept everlastingly alive by the 
interaction of its dread disease and the ointments used to preserve 
its body. It needs energy, which it gains by killing people. 

Victims not entirely killed are infected, losing their free will and 
refusing to drink so they gradually become mummified. These first- 
stage mummies obey their evil master, who only needs access to the 
temple once used to mummify bodies to convert them to an immortal army. 

All mummies are very strong and can "swim" slowly beneath the sands, 
clawing their way upwards to emerge inside the tents of their victims 
who they drag down into the depths. Their weaknesses are a fear of 
fire and water. 

You need to find the secret of defeating the mummy (from a host of 
clue inscriptions hidden about the necropolis) before the original 
mummy can process its followers. 

              PLAYING "THE CURSE OF THE MUMMY'S TOMB!" 

INTRODUCTION. The game starts with a ten screen highly-animated 
introduction, setting the Egyptian scene and acting as a rolling demo.  

AERIAL MAP. The game area is shown on a scrolling aerial "photograph", 
with spot animation, across which you steer a magnifying glass . 

Click on a place of interest, and the glass enlarges to show a 
picture and descriptive text. Move the cursor to close up the glass 
again, or click to travel to the place. Long journeys take several 
days - shown by an intermission screen of camels or a Nile boat. 

100 "WALKABOUT" 3D SCENES. Once at a place, the game is played (much 
like any Sierra game) by walking your 60-pixel high hero through 
animated 3D scenes of Egyptian ruins, labyrinths and towns. Level 9's 
H.U.G.E system allows more graphics, bigger sprites and more animation 
than its competitors, and does this sort of thing very well indeed. 

Some of the other characters are static and always found at the same 
place, but many are mobile - following their own scripts whether you 
are there to see them or not. They use "goal directed" commands to 
adapt to circumstances and (building on Level 9's experience) are 
very realistic indeed. 

For commands, you press FIRE to call up a menu bar, left-right to 
select your menu (e.g objects, people, or system) and up-down and fire 
to select an entry from it. For example to talk to someone you move 
across to the people menu, down it to the person you want and press 
fire; then the menu changes to show e.g talk and examine, so you move 
down it to talk and press fire again. An easy yet powerful system. 

When people talk with you, the game pauses while their animated 
portraits overlay the 3D screen. Text windows are similarly opened, 
as necessary, pausing the action if the text is important, or simply 
scrolling into and out view. Meanwhile, high-quality midi music plays. 

You need to solve adventure-ish puzzles, talk (and spy on) to people 
to find what is going on, run away from the mummies, rescue your 
friend if they get kidnapped, and at the end find the means to defeat 
the undead high priest and put a final end to his powers.  

GRAPHICAL HIGHLIGHTS. About a dozen key incidents in the story are 
illustrated by animated scenes, seen from a "first person" view to 
give a change of graphical style and remove the restrictions imposed 
on the usual scenes by their side-on 3D view. 

The highlight scenes both carry forward events, and act as rewards 
for the player who has got this far. They will be graphically as 
wonderful as we can make them. 


IN SUMMARY, "The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb": 
* is an animated adventure interface which will appeal to the Sierra 
  marketplace, while beating its competitors in just about every way,
* uses H.U.G.E, the most advanced system around,  
* has an attention-grabbing title and subject, 
* 2 meg (before compression) of authentic and atmospheric pictures, 
* digitised sound and a long midi soundtrack, 
* and is available simultaneously for Amiga/ST/PC on 2-3 disks (3.5"). 

                                 Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing 
