
   "ROBIN HOOD" DESIGN OUTLINE. COPYRIGHT (C) 20/11/89 LEVEL 9 
   ----------------------------------------------------------- 

"Robin Hood" should need no introduction. This mediaeval outlaw 
roamed Sherwood Forest in northern England, with his band of green- 
clad "Merrie Men" archers, robbing the rich and giving to the poor. 

Robin's opponents included the Sheriff of Nottingham, Guy of Gisborne 
and false King John. Robin's band were famous in their own right and 
included Little John, Friar Tuck, and Will Scarlett the minstrel, 
who together helped true king Richard the Lionheart return and 
restore justice to the Kingdom. 

The game plot and sub-games are very faithful to the legends and 
involve Robin in.. 
* recruiting his remaining Merrie Men (e.g Little John will only join 
  after their famous quarterstaff duel), 
* robbing rich clerics and tax collectors of enough money to help the 
  poor villagers (who show their gratitude by passing on information 
  to the outlaws) and pay King Richard's ransom, 
* defeating the Sheriff's plans (e.g rescuing Maid Marian from 
  prison, and winning the archery contest for the golden arrow), 
* and finally escorting good King Richard to Nottingham Castle, and 
  opening the gates to let him ride inside and overthrow bad King John. 

There is a time limit, as the Archbishop of Canterbury will be
forced to crown King John on Michelmas - officially recognising him 
as the true king and cancelling Richard's claim to the throne. 

The game has a substantial strategy element, in that a lot of things 
are going on, whether or not Robin gets to see them, and so he must 
actively seek out and follow-up rumours. Merrie Men can be given 
orders to investigate, by means of multiple-choice options, and ride 
off across the map. Or Robin can go himself, in disguise. Of course, 
some rumours lead to traps set by Sheriff. 

As with all H.U.G.E games, Robin Hood will be available (on about 3 
disks each) for IBM (all common graphic modes), Amiga, ST and Mac. It 
has many animated graphics, plus background music and digitised sound. 


GAME SCREENS. Robin Hood imitates a swashbuckling film, and contains 
many different sub-games, each with their own screen formats... 

1) 3D SCROLLING MAP OF SHERWOOD FOREST. This is the main game map 
   and is about 2 by 2 screens, showing an animated view of the 
   entire game territory. Places are shown by oversized cartoon 
   pictures, and travellers etc. can be seen as they ride along the 
   forest roads, passing behind taller trees and other scenery. 

   The mouse/joystick/keyboard move a cursor across the map: 
   * Click on Robin (the cursor changes) and then on his destination 
     to start him moving. Robin is shown riding across the map. When 
     he reaches an interesting destination, or encounters somebody 
     on the road, the screen automatically changes to the appropriate 
     sub-game for the person or place. 
   * Click on the menu bar at the top for game control options etc. 
     Also use this to blow Robin's horn and summon the Merrie Men. 
   * When the cursor crosses a person or place, a window opens above 
     the opposite corner of the map, with a larger picture of them 
     and a text description. 

2) CONVERSATION. When Robin meets someone interesting, the display 
   shows a 3D picture of the location with the person (or people) 
   in the foreground. Conversation is shown in a window at the 
   bottom of the screen, with Robin's possible responses selected 
   by the cursor. 

3) IMPORTANT PLACES. Towns, villages, Robin's hideout and the like 
   are shown as in "Grange Murders" or "Billy the Kid" (i.e a 3D 
   Sierra-style view with about 60-pixel tall figures). 

   Normally the mouse/joystick/keyboard steers Robin about. He 
   automatically picks up objects if he walks over them, and 
   defends himself with his staff if he collides with an enemy. 

   Press fire to select the menu bar, which then functions as in 
   game "1" (play pauses while your joystick etc. moves a cursor 
   across the menus - fire selects the current highlit command). 

   If Robin enters an interesting location (e.g the Blacksmith's 
   shop, water mill, or wise woman's cottage), or meets someone 
   who wants to talk to him, the screen is temporarily replaced by 
   an animated close-up. See "2". 

4) SNEAK UP ON CASTLE. This is like "3", but seen from a very low 
   viewpoint and with Robin's apparant movement speed into the 
   screen slowed in consequence. There are two smaller Robin 
   figures, used as he gets further away. 

   In the distance is a castle, with guards patrolling the walls. 
   Robin must utilise the cover of bushes etc. to reach the foot 
   of the wall without the alarm being sounded. 

5) CLIMB WALL. A large figure of Robin is shown climbing the 
   castle wall, which scrolls and is two screens high. Move the 
   cursor onto his next hand/foothold, click on it and Robin 
   will move his nearest hand/foot onto the hold, provided he 
   can reach. The game ends at the top of the wall. 

   If neither foot is supported, Robin slips to full-length; if 
   neither hand is supported he falls. 

6) CASTLE. Robin visits Nottingham castle several times, e.g to 
   free Marian or open the gates for Richard. This game has a 
   45 degree Gauntlet-type view, and the castle is shown in 3D. 

   Imagine the castle sliced across, into about 5 layers: 
   * When Robin is in the topmost turret, he might see the cross 
     section of the turret, and below the walls and roofs of the 
     main castle, its battlements and courtyard. 
   * When he descends to the next slice, the castle roofs and the 
     topmost part of the turret are removed, and instead he sees 
     a slice through the turret, the upper floor of castle rooms 
     which lead onto the battlements, and the courtyard below. 
   * Continuing down, past another two slices, the ground itself 
     is eventually removed and he sees the underground dungeon. 

   Of course, if Robin climbs back up, the castle slices are added 
   back to the image on the screen. Combined with a castle which 
   covers several scrolling screens, and 3D graphics not restricted 
   by cell boundaries, this should look impressive. 

   Robin is controlled in the standard Gauntlet manner; steered by 
   the mouse/joystick/keyboard and shooting when fire is pressed. 

7) QUARTERSTAFF FIGHT. A one-on-one combat game, seen from the 
   side. It is used when Robin chooses to challenge someone to 
   battle and when he first meets Little John or Friar Tuck. 
   If both combatants use quarterstaves, both survive. 

   Health is shown by vertical scales, to left and right. 
 
   Control is by joystick etc. (press fire to strike at the 
   selected height, rather than parry). For example..

         High Parry+Retreat   High Parry   High Parry+Advance
                            \     |      /
         Mid Parry+Retreat      --+--      Mid Parry+Advance
                            /     |      \
         Low Parry+Retreat    Low Parry    Low Parry+Advance

   I'm sure we've all seen quite enough sword duels, so Robin will 
   still use a quarterstaff even when fighting a knight. Knights 
   use swords and move slower (because of wearing armour), and 
   parrying is obviously important when fighting them. 

8) ARCHERY. We may also have seen enough archery games, but archery 
   is essential for "Robin Hood". The scene is viewed over Robin's 
   shoulder, and you move a cursor which indicates his aiming point. 
   To make the game challenging, Robin has a limited number of 
   arrows, shown in the quiver slung over his shoulder, and you must 
   aim a bit high and a bit into the wind to compensate for the curve 
   of each arrow's flight. Wind is shown by e.g flapping flags. 

   This game is used to: 
   * Shoot a message (wound around a black arrow) into Marian's cell 
     in Nottingham castle; 
   * Win the archery contest; 
   * Bring down the enemy leader, escaping after an ambush. 

9) AMBUSH. This uses a Gauntlet-type view, enlarging the current part 
   of the game map. Robin might have seen a tax collector and escort 
   of guards trotting along a forest road, and have ridden quickly 
   along a short cut to get ahead of them. 

   Robin blows his horn to summon his Merrie Men, then the cursor is 
   used to move them into position (click on an outlaw, move the 
   cursor, and click again to tell him where to go). 

   When all the outlaws are in position, Robin blows his horn to 
   signal them to hide (all those in cover simply vanish) and soon 
   the enemy riders come in sight. 

   When Robin blows his horn for the third time, the outlaws leap out 
   and attack from ambush. The enemy will retreat if they can, but 
   if properly surrounded must fight. Robin fights as in game "6", or 
   can blow his horn for one last time to break off combat. 
 
   The idea is not to massacre the opposition, but to get them to 
   scatter and flee. Robin can then e.g use archery to bring down 
   the fleeing king's messenger, or go and rob the treasure cart. 


JOYSTICK/MOUSE/KEYBOARD CONTROL 

"Robin Hood" can be played entirely by mouse, by joystick, or by 
keyboard. Control differs from game to game, but there are two 
main control types: 

1) Steering a cursor across the screen and pressing fire to select. 
   This is used on e.g maps and menus. 

2) Moving Robin in the same direction as the joystick etc is pushed, 
   end pressing fire to attack, or choose the menus (as appropriate 
   for the current game). 
