









Ian G Harling                                             22/1/90 
4 Aberdeen Road 
Redland 
Bristol BS6 6HT 
0272 744214 

Dear Ian, 

         As I said over the 'phone, Level 9 are developing a small 
Tetris-family game called Bubblis - probably either for release on 
a compilation, or as a pause-mode game within a larger product. 

I have long wanted to do a "little computer fish" game, and Bubblis 
is an excuse to produce an animated fishtank. (I've dropped the idea 
of using Vegas style effects - they will fit very nicely into 
another game I'm working on instead). 

The enclosed Amiga disk (which is confidential and fingerprinted) 
should give you some idea what we want in the way of animation. 
Basically, I'd like lots (up to about 10% of the screen) of movement, 
but I want cameos rather than lots of random action. The incidents 
in the background should tell little repeating stories. 

You don't need to program the animation - I'll do this - but give 
me an idea in words what you intend, and supply the animation frames 
needed. If a fish eats some weed, for example, I need the animation 
necessary to replace what's eaten - and if some creature wanders off 
into the distance, it has to wander back again (unless another one 
hatches). 

I like realism, and expect any living creatures to be accurate, but 
if you want to add mermaids or a pottery fishtank castle that's OK 
by me. And don't forget we need a suitably bubbly palette. 

On the Amiga disk is a picture file to show the palette which is 
needed for the IBM. Please keep this unchanged - even to the rather 
silly order of the colours. Please also only use the top 192 pixels 
of the Amiga screen. 

1) I am offering #500 for three pictures for "Bubblis", any 
   associated animations and the typeface for the game. 

2) If you are prepared to do the pictures, please 'phone me with 
   a timescale, and next post some pencil/ink sketches of the 
   screens, with written notes on proposed animations. 

3) If the project works well and in a reasonable timescale, Level 9 
   have a lot of more substantial projects on hand and hope that you 
   will be able to do more graphics for us. But first things first; 
   let's get Bubblis done. 

