
     "BUBBLIS" DESIGN OUTLINE. COPYRIGHT (C) 19/2/90 LEVEL 9 
     ------------------------------------------------------- 

Bubblis is a Tetris-type game, but in no sense a Tetris clone. 
(In a similar way, Sierra's games are described as "adventures" 
although they are quite unlike the first "Adventur"). 

Bubblis is set underwater, amidst animated fish and water plants, 
and requires you to guide rising bubbles, which then collect near 
the surface of the water. If you manage to assemble an adjacent 
square of bubbles of the same colour, they combine into a single 
big bubble, which then bursts - sometimes bursting the adjacent 
small bubbles too. (Different coloured big bubbles earn different 
scores and bonusses - e.g extra lives - when they burst). 

Bubblis has a music score and digitised sound effects, including 
"musical" popping noises, and lots of background animation. 

Play gets faster as time passes, and if you fail to burst bubbles 
regularly, they eventually build up and overflow the play area. 
This ends the current level and, if lives remain, play resumes 
slowly on the next level, which is made more difficult by the 
addition of an extra type of yet higer-value bubble. (The more 
types of bubble, the harder it is to match four in a square).  


      CONTROLS (by cursor, mouse or numeric keypad): 

Left  = rising bubble moves diagonally left 
Right =   "      "      "       "      right 
Up    = bubble rushes vertically as far as it can 
Down  = timeout (pause mode). The number of timeouts is limited. 
Fire  = burst rising bubble. This number is also limited. 


      GRAPHICS (title, game, and high score table): 

Level 9's HUGE system uses 16*16 pixel cells on a 320*192 pixel 
screen, and each finished picture is usually made up from several 
dozen graphical objects arranged in 3D space. 

E.g, a typical office in "Raj" uses the following static objects,  
working forward from the back: view through window, wall paper 
(actually, this is lots of identical objects), window frame, 
load/save icons, map on wall, game icons, large figure at desk, 
desk itself, book/scroll, bell. Animation sequences are positioned 
at appropriate depths so that they go in front of some objects 
and behind others. 

HUGE imposes no absolute restrictions on the artist, but it is 
helpful to bear the following in mind: 
* Static objects are always cell aligned. So, depending on exact 
  position, a small object might all fit in one cell, or might 
  lie on the corner between cells and waste four times the space. 
* Moving sprites are not cell aligned when displayed, but should 
  be still drawn in as few cells as possible. E.g align the Bubblis 
  bubbles and make sure each just fits within 16*16. 
* It costs little to re-use an existing object, so Bubblis can 
  probably afford shoals of fish (as long as each is smallish). 
* But artists shouldn't worry about cutting around objects in the 
  background, unless they want to, as Level 9 have lots of practice 
  in doing this sort of thing. 
* When drawing animation frames for sprites, please arrange them 
  logically. There is no need to fill each screen, as blank cells 
  are ignored, but it is sensible to reduce the total number of 
  picture files involved by grouping related graphics together. 
* Pictures are drawn, in the first instance, using a consistent 
  IBM EGA pallette. (Follow the example supplied). This is the most 
  important version, and the one which will be seen by perhaps 80% 
  players. We will subsequently want the palette re-adjusted for the 
  ST (only the palette changes), and finally the graphics retouched 
  to add 32-colours for the Amiga and MCGA. (This latter stage does 
  not involve the addition or removal of any cells.) 
* Level 9 are specialising in animated scenery as our trademark. 
  E.g one of the "Raj" screens has a cricket match in the background. 
  It is nice when animated scenery tells a short (and repeating) 
  story, rather than just being a random collection of flags, 
  ripples and candles. 

Bubblis uses a unique typeface, closely based on an existing nice 
typeface but modified to give bubble-like letters. Only upper case, 
numbers and some punctuation is needed. Letters are large and have 
black borders, so they are legible against an animated background. 

Bubblis has three animated screens, all on an underwater theme: 
* title (with brief instructions and mouse/joystick/keyboard), 
* game (with optional second playfield for two-player game), 
* high score (with joystick entry of player names). 


1) TITLE SCREEN: this shows large figures of bearded Poseidon on the 
left and a mermaid on the right, both scantily though decently clad 
and seated on thrones. Poseiden is holding a trident and the 
mermaid a cornocopia from which jewels are falling. The background 
is branching coral. 

Animation: both main characters are static, but their eyes blink and 
they have two alternative mouth expressions to the default. Jewels 
fall from the cornucopia. Small, bright fish, jellyfish and 
seahorses swim or float through the branches of the coral. Tiny 
bubbles rise through the water. In the foreground are the same fish 
as in later screens. 

The name "BUBBLIS" is writ large in the forground, and will be 
animated in some way - perhaps the letters will bob up and down, 
or perhaps they will float upwards individually. Explanatory text, 
in a bubble-like font, scrolls sideways. 


GAME SCREEN: this is also underwater, though in a fish tank and 
with a more subdued background of waterweed and tank ornaments. 

Animation: relatively drab fish swim about (large ones in the 
foreground, and a shoal of single-cell fish in the background), 
snails crawl over the glass, and small bubbles float upwards. 

Monochrome fish swim across the foreground, each releasing a 
16*16 pixel bubble of the corresponding colour as it reaches the 
playfield. These bubbles wobble upwards and assemble in a square 
array at the top of the screen. There is animation for small 
bubbles bursting, four bubbles of the same colour assembling into 
a bigger 32*32 bubble, and bigger bubbles bursting. 

Score details are displayed in the same text as on the title screen, 
and additional instructions are reported by sideways-scrolling text 
in the bubble-like font. 


HIGH SCORE SCREEN: this is a variant of the game screen, with the 
addition of a high score table in the usual font, and an animated 
cat in the background. 

Additional animation: the cat blinks, narrows its eyes, licks its 
lips (and hence nose), and fishes with a paw. 


Bubble animation. There are perhaps nine different types of bubble, 
each with a different colour and a distinct pattern (so as to be 
distinct in black-and-white modes) but all recognisable as 3D 
bubbles. They all wobble (3 frame animation?) as they rise. The 
game also needs animation for when large bubbles form (there are 
again about 9 different types) and when bubbles burst. Points for 
burst bubbles are temporarily displayed on coloured circles. 

