











Level 9 are on stand 3349, demonstrating H.U.G.E and Scapeghost. 


                A H.U.G.E STEP INTO THE FUTURE 

"H.U.G.E" is the "wHolly Universal Games Engine", Level 9's new 
games authoring system for 16-bit computers: Amiga, ST, IBM PC, 
Macintosh etc. It is a breakthrough tool for games programming, 
allowing not only unprecedented 3D animation and scrolling, but 
simultaneous development across all systems. 

In other words, once a HUGE game is finished on the IBM (say) it 
works on all the other 16-bit micros too. 

"'H.U.G.E' is a good name for the new Level 9 system," commented 
Managing Director Mike Austin, "as it includes 165,000 lines of 
code and has taken 20,000 man-hours to develop." (When closely 
printed, the HUGE source listing is a foot thick and weighs 
30 pounds). "It represents a number of major advances for games 
software, and we are confident that the acclaim that Level 9 have 
received in the past for our high quality adventures will be 
continued in the arcade-oriented environment of H.U.G.E". 

Level 9 will be producing both original games and conversions 
using the system, and e.g are already writing a number of H.U.G.E 
games for one major US publisher. (See overleaf for more details 
of H.U.G.E). 



           SCAPEGHOST: ADVENTURING BEYOND THE GRAVE

Level 9 - authors of over 15 top selling adventure games since the 
firm's inception in 1981 - are launching their last ever traditional 
adventure game at this PCS show, before switching to more arcade- 
orientated products. 

"People have been predicting the death of the adventure market for 
years", said designer Pete Austin, "so Scapeghost is a strangely 
appropriate final release". 

In Scapeghost, you play a ghostly ex-detective, seeking revenge 
after being falsely blamed while the real criminals go free. The 
game combines excellent graphics, novel psychic puzzles, Level 9's 
acclaimed adventure system and masses of graveyard humour. (See 
page three for more details). 













            H.U.G.E: THE WHOLLY UNIVERSAL GAMES ENGINE 


H.U.G.E is Level 9's new in-house games authoring system for: 
   IBM PC (CGA/EGA/MCGA/Hercules/Tandy/256 colour VGA graphics); 
   Amiga  (16 or 32 colour graphics, using the blitter extensively); 
   Atari ST;
   Apple Macintosh. 


Features include: 
   Smooth multi-directional scrolling, even of animated 3D scenes; 
   Fast animation, with no overhead for 3D graphics; 
   Flexible sprites, of arbitrary shape, and sprite parking; 
   Digitised sound; 
   Compression of graphics, code and data etc; 
   Total portability between machines. 


H.U.G.E can be used for most types of game, apart from vector 
graphics games, and would be well suited for producing, e.g: 
   Any of the current RPGs (Dungeon Master, Bard's Tale); 
   Multi-part games (Defender of the Crown, Sports tournaments); 
   Gauntlet-style games; 
   "Walk-about adventures" (Leisure Suit Larry, King's Quest).  

In other words, any big (e.g multiple-disk) game with 3D graphics 
and lots of animation would suit us just fine. 
   

The H.U.G.E system consists of a machine code kernel (or "driver") 
for each target machine, and a much bigger development system. 

The development system uses many in-house utilities for e.g 
compiling programs, defining game maps and compressing data. 

The most important utility is the "Structure Editor", which builds 
Neochrome pictures into self-contained 3D animated screens and 
graphics subroutines, greatly reducing the amount of game programming. 

The Structure Editor is itself just a very big program, written using 
H.U.G.E. So while Level 9 currently use the Atari ST for development, 
we thought we would test the portability of the system by copying the 
Structure Editor to the IBM PC - and indeed it was working perfectly 
there within two hours.  













            SCAPEGHOST: LEVEL 9'S LAST ADVENTURE


Scapeghost is being launched at PCS; 16-bit versions are on sale 
from us on stand 3349 and (duplicators willing) we hope to get the 
major 8-bit versions before the end of the show. Everything will 
be in stock within a fortnight of now. 


Scapeghost stars an ex-cop (an in-spectre?), who was disposed of 
when he tracked down a drugs ring, then was framed for crimes he 
did not commit. You find yourself reincarnated in your old haunts 
with just three nights to clear your name and get revenge on the 
real villains. 

Even with your old detective skills, your growing psychic powers, 
and the help of kindred spirits, unravelling the mystery isn't going 
to be easy. But the sophisticated Level 9 parser, and advanced 
features such as go to, find and undo, will give you at least the 
ghost of a chance. 

Scapeghost features three parts, with thirty high quality pictures on 
disk. It is available from us on stand 3349; mail order from Level 9, 
PO Box 39, Avon BS24 9UR; or by major credit card on 0934 814450. 
It costs #19.95 for 16-bit and 3" disks, and #14.95 for 8-bit.

The full list of Scapeghost versions is as follows.. 
  Amiga,ST,IBM PC,PCW/CPC/Spectrum+3 disks with pictures: #19.95  
  CBM 64,BBC 48k+/Master disks with pictures:             #14.95
  Atari XL/XE disk (text only):                           #14.95 
  Spectrum,CBM 64,CPC,Atari XL/XE tapes (text only):      #14.95 
