
  "INFERNO" - OUTLINE DESIGN. Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing 

Dante's "Inferno" is the first part of his "Divine Comedy" trilogy, the 
greatest work ever written in Italian (though it's long been translated 
into just about every language). More importantly for our purposes, it 
is a name that most people will know, and the story has superb scenery. 

Dante travels through the twenty-four circles of Hell, in an arduous 
journey towards God. Passing the famous sign, "Abandon all hope, ye 
who enter here", Virgil escorts the poet ever deeper, through the 
circles of Hell in turn. Each punishment fits the crime: e.g the 
Lustful are buffeted by howling wind, Misers roll immense rocks, the 
Violent swim in blood, Hypocrites struggle inside their heavy gold 
cloaks, and so on. 

Although Virgil has some power over the many and varied demons, he and 
Dante must use their wits on several occasions to escape and come safe 
to the centre of Hell - from where they return to Earth. 

                        INFERNO: THE GAME 

"Inferno" follows the travel of Dante across the landscape of Hell, 
guided by Virgil. He meets and outwits lots of demons, on his way to 
defeating Lucifer himself. 

The game has a "first person" display and can be compared to "Dungeon 
Master" crossed with a 16-bit "Lords of Midnight". It is set above 
ground and the display is a full-screen, animated, landscaped picture 
of your surroundings - ensuring maximum impact. 

You will meet a huge variety of demons and several sinners. They 
approach in 3D, and some get very large indeed when they get close. 
You can fight the demons (much as in Dungeon Master) or, because 
"Inferno" is a fantasy role-playing adventure rather than a killing 
game, talk to the more peaceful ones using a system of menus. 

The control mechanism is deliberately streamlined, and the aims of this 
game are to gain objects of power, rescue unjustly sentenced sinners 
and eventually escape from Hell. The game has a very large map, with a 
great many puzzles and sub-plots, so this will take quite a while. 


                  INFERNO: BACKGROUND GRAPHICS 

The screen shows your view forward. This is "landscaped": assembled 
from component mountains, ruins, canyons etc - each of which is 
available in many sizes so the perspective is correct. Some features 
are animated (e.g jets of steam, volcanoes on the horizon, falling 
brimstone etc). 

Movement is as in "Lords or Midnight", or "Dungeon Master": push the 
joystick left/right to turn, or forwards/back to move, and the screen 
jumps to show the scene from your new viewpoint. 

Demons are built up identikit fashion to allow a huge variety of body 
shapes (like grotesque equivalents of the large people in Billy the 
Kid) and are also stored in several sizes, so they too get bigger as 
they approach. They all have animated mouths and eyes, and some have 
attack animations (e.g waving weapons). 

There are also some special 3D animations: e.g when Geryon flies from 
the distance and lands before you, a leviathan emerges from the river, 
or a truly truly massive demon reaches down to grab you and the camera 
follows you up his body and down his throat. 

In heavily populated regions, the background switches to one of 
several "Heironymous Bosch-like" pictures, animated and depicting the 
class of sinners appropriate to the area. There will usually be a 
guardian demon in the foreground to negotiate with; hopefully you 
will have acquired the knowledge or "key object" needed to pass him. 


              INFERNO: FOREGROUND GRAPHICS AND CONTROL 

The player controls Dante and Virgil, and on occasion up to two other 
rescued sinners. The heads and shoulders of this party are shown from 
behind in the foreground, where you control them by clicking the 
cursor. The two in the front rank get to to fight etc., while the 
back two are held in reserve. 

Press FIRE to switch from the joystick controlling movement, to it 
controlling a skeleton-hand cursor instead. (Click on a movement 
icon, between the rearmost party members, to switch back). 

By pointing this hand at whatever you want to act upon, and then 
pressing FIRE, you can fully control the game. The results should be 
pretty obvious in each case (or at least, easy to learn)... 

Click the hand on    Effects 
-----------------    ------- 
Any Hero (e.g Dante) pause game and open a window showing the face and 
                     name of the hero, his status and load/save icons. 
Backpack he wears    ditto, showing face and possessions (as icons). 
Object he holds      ditto, showing face and special powers (as icons). 
or Weapon he holds   starts/stops it being waved, to fight. 
Long-range weapon    cursor changes to e.g an arrow; next click on an 
         he holds    enemy in the distance to shoot it. 
Scenery in distance  overlay screen by descriptive text. 
Demon in distance    ditto, plus a menu if it wants to talk. 
Static object        use it (e.g push button, open door). 
Object on ground     pick it up (replaces cursor). 
Object in backpack   pick it up (replaces cursor, window closes). 
                     Once an object has replaced the cursor, click on: 
                     * demon, to aim/throw/give it (as appropriate), 
                     * backpack or ground, to drop it there, 
                     * held weapon/object to swap them round. 
Special power icon   cursor changes to a sparkle and the powers window 
                     closes; now click on the target of the power. 
Movement icon        lose cursor and return to "movement mode". 

I hope these are obvious in practice. Basically, the rule is that you 
click on something to pick it up (or activate its power if you're 
already holding it). If the cursor changes, you next click on the 
destination of the object or power. 

Conversation uses menus. Click on a nearby demon, or wait until one 
talks to you; a menu overlays the screen and you use up/down and fire 
to select your reply from the menu. When the conversation is 
over, you revert to e.g controlling the hand. 

                             SUMMARY 

This is a game that will appeal to the broad range of markets from 
fantasy role playing, through arcade adventures to true adventure 
players. With a huge game map, lots of puzzles and quests, demonic 
combat, the best possible atmospheric graphics, digitised sound and 
midi music, it should be a game worthy of Dante's vision. And every 
single scene would look good on a demo video. 

                               Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing. 
