
  "INFERNO" - OUTLINE DESIGN. Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing 

Dante's "Inferno" is the first part of his "Divine Comedy" trilogy, the 
greatest work ever written in Italian (though it's long been translated 
into just about every language). More importantly for our purposes, it 
is a name that most people will know, and the story has superb scenery. 

Dante travels through the twenty-four circles of Hell, in an arduous 
journey towards God. Passing the famous sign, "Abandon all hope, ye 
who enter here", Virgil escorts the poet ever deeper, through the 
circles of Hell in turn. Each punishment fits the crime: e.g the 
Lustful are buffetted by howling wind, Misers roll immense rocks, the 
Violent swim in blood, Hypocrites struggle inside their heavy gold 
cloaks, and so on. 

Although Virgil has some power over the many and varied demons, he and 
Dante must use their wits on several occasions to escape and come safe 
to the centre of Hell - from where they return to Earth. 

                        INFERNO: THE GAME 

"Inferno" follows the travel of Dante across the landscape of Hell, 
guided by Dante. On the way he meets, and rescues, unjustly sentenced 
sinners (some of whom accompany him for a little way) and finds and 
uses objects of power. He also meets, and outwits, lots of demons on 
his way to defeat Lucifer himself. 

BRIEF SUMMARY. This game is best compared to a "Dungeon Master", but 
set above ground and with a full-screen landscaped background, with 
animation, for maximum impact (c.f a 16-bit "Lords of Midnight"). 

Identikit demons approach in 3D, and some get very large indeed when 
they get close (taller than the screen). You can talk to them, using 
menus, as well as fight: this is a frp adventure rather than a game 
where you kill everything on sight. 

The control mechanism is somewhat streamlined, and the aims of this 
game are to gain objects of power, rescue unjustly sentenced sinners 
and eventually escape from Hell. The game has a large map, with a 
great many puzzles and sub-plots, so this will take quite a while! 


                  INFERNO: BACKGROUND GRAPHICS 

A landscaped background shows your view forward, assembled from 
component mountains, ruins, canyons etc - each of which is available 
in many sizes so the perspective is correct. And some landscape 
features are animated (e.g jets of steam, volcanoes on the horizon, 
falling brimstone etc). 

Walking about is as in "Lords or Midnight", or "Dungeon Master": push 
the joystick left/right to turn, or forwards/back to turn or advance/ 
retreat, and the screen jumps to show the scene from your new viewpont. 

Demons are built up identikit fashion (like the large people in Billy 
the Kid) and are also stored in several sizes, so they too get bigger 
as you approach. They all have animated mouths and eyes, and some 
(especially aggressive ones) can e.g wave weapons. 

There are spot 3D animations: e.g when Geryon flies from the distance 
and lands before you, a leviathon emerges from the river, or a truly 
truly massive demon reaches down to grab you and the camera follows 
you up his body and down his throat. 

In heavily populated regions, the background switches to one of about 
a dozen "Heironymous Bosch-like" pictures, animated and depicting the 
class of sinners appropriate to the area. There will usually be a 
guardian demon in the foreground to negotiate with; hopefully you 
will have acquired the knowledge or "key object" needed to get past. 

              INFERNO: FOREGROUND GRAPHICS AND CONTROL 

The player controls Dante and Virgil, and on occasion up to two other 
rescued sinners. The heads and shoulders of this party are shown from 
behind in the foreground, where you control them by clicking the 
cursor. The two in the front rank get to to fight etc., while the 
back two are held in reserve. 

Press FIRE to switch from the joystick controlling movement, to it 
controlling a skeleton-hand cursor instead. (Click it on a movement 
icon between the rearmost party members to switch back). 

By pointing this hand at whatever you want to do something to, and 
pressing FIRE, you can fully control the game. The results should be 
pretty obvious in each case (or at least, easy to learn)... 

Click the hand on:   Effects: 

Any Hero             pause game and open a window showing the face and 
                     name of the hero, his status and load/save icons. 
Backpack he wears    ditto, showing face and possessions (as icons). 
Object he holds      ditto, showing face and special powers (as icons). 
or Weapon he holds   starts/stops it being waved, to fight. 
Long-range weapon    cursor changes to e.g an arrow; next click on an 
         he holds    enemy in the distance to shoot it. 
Scenery in distance  overlay screen by descriptive text. 
Monster in distance  ditto, plus a menu if it wants to talk (etc). 
Static object        use it (e.g push button, open door). 
Object on ground     pick it up (replaces cursor). 
Object in backpack   pick it up (replaces cursor, window closes). 
                     Once an object has replaced the cursor, click on: 
                     * demon, to aim/throw/give it (as appropriate), 
                     * backpack or ground, to drop it there, 
                     * held weapon/object to swap them round. 
Special power icon   cursor changes to a sparkle and the powers window 
                     closes; now click on the target of the power. 
Movement icon        lose cursor and return to "movement mode". 

I hope these are obvious in practice. Basically, the rule is that you 
click on something to pick it up (or activate its power if you're 
already holding it), the cursor changes appropriately, and you then 
click on the destination of the object or power. 

The exception is conversation. Click on a nearby demon, or wait until 
one talks to you; a menu overlays the screen and you use up/down and 
fire to select your reply from the menu. When the conversation is 
over, you revert to e.g controlling the hand. 

                             SUMMARY 

This is a game that will appeal to the broad range of markets from 
fantasy role playing, through arcade adventures to true adventure 
players. With a huge game map, lots of puzzles and quests, demonic 
combat, the best possible atmospheric graphics, digitised sound and 
midi music, it should be a game worthy of Dante's vision. 

                               Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing. 
