


















   "DUNE" - OUTLINE DESIGN. Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 Computing 

"Epic" is the only word to describe Frank Herbert's classic science 
fiction novel, Dune. 

The basic story is simple.. The Atreides Family are lured into 
exchanging their secure base for tenuous control of the desert 
planet Dune. They are betrayed and defeated by Baron Harkonnen, but 
Paul Atreides escapes into the desert, where he joins the local 
Fremen tribes. Paul uses his advanced mental and physical skills to 
become leader of the Fremen, and leads an army of sandworm-riding 
desert warriors to defeat the Harkonnens. Finally, by threatening to 
block the supply of Spice, a drug vital for spaceflight which is 
only found on Dune, Paul becomes Galactic Emperor. 

But this is just one narrative strand out of perhaps a dozen which 
make up the book. For example, Dune also tells how.. The Fremen plan, 
aided by planetologist Lyet Kynes, to make the desert bloom; the Bene 
Gesseret are trying to breed a "Kwisatz Hederach" who can see the 
future and give them control; The Harkonnens are plotting as much 
against each other, as to gain control of the Empire; Paul Atreides 
gradually attains manhood; and the secrets of the planet Dune unfold.   

The intertwining of so many stories is what makes Dune such a good 
novel, but it gives rise to two major problems when converting the 
book to other formats. The film attempted to cram everything in, 
becoming disjointed and confusing (in my opinion) - clearly a danger 
for the game as well. Conversely, if we were to just follow a single 
plot strand, this would mean discarding 90% of the book. 


It seems to me that there are three possible types of game, which may 
avoid these dangers and make the most of the potential of Dune...

1) A conventional RPG (role-playing game) in the D&D mould. The 
   player starts by designing a hero - or group of heroes - who 
   then wander about the planet, fighting enemies, solving puzzles, 
   collecting treasures and steadily gaining in power - to arm 
   themselves for a final duel with the enemy leader. 

   I am told that one game has already been produced along these 
   lines; a board game which is no longer in print. And its 
   advantages include: 
   * it makes the most of the map of Dune; 
   * the different races correspond well to traditional fantasy 
     "character types" (Bene Gesserit=Witches, Space Guild=Magicians, 
     Sardaukar=Warriors, Fremen=Rangers and so on); 
   * an infinite potential for expansion. 

   But it has three weaknesses, which I think outweigh them: 
   * the book's storyline is lost; 
   * a great many non-authentic puzzles and places are needed; 
   * head-to-head competition, in a niche market, with games bearing 
     the official "D&D" license. 


The other two designs are similar in many ways...

2) A political strategy game, where half-a-dozen groups compete for 
   power over Dune. Several people play at once, or a single player 
   can pick one and let the computer control the remainder from: Paul 
   Atreides and Fremen; Harkonnens; Bene Gesserit; Emperor and 
   Sardaukar; Spacing Guild and Smugglers; etc. 

   Each group is personified by a single character (e.g the Bene 
   Gesserit by Reverend Mother Mohaim), and they have differing aims 
   and victory conditions. 

   The result is very like a multi-player board game, played on a 
   scrolling map of Arrakis, with the option of including a few 
   small arcade games to break up a what is basically a combination 
   war and FRP game. (E.g for the Harkonnen player it's almost a 
   100% war game, and for the Bene Gesserit it's almost pure FRP).  

3) An arcade/strategy game, from the viewpoint of Paul Atreides (or 
   Jessica, his mother, if you play as a female). This starts with a 
   sequence of arcade games and narrative screens, telling the story 
   of Paul's escape to meet up with the Fremen in the desert. 

   Then a Cinemaware-style strategy game, with Paul controlling the 
   guerrilla war against the Fremen, and also travelling in person to 
   contact allies such as planetologist Lyet Kynes. 
   
   The final battle game results in Paul's sandworm-riding troops 
   breaking through the Harkonnen defences, and the game ends with a 
   climactic duel-to-the-death against Feyd-Rautha. 

Both these latter games have some role-playing elements, with the 
hero(es) travelling about Dune to recruit allies and learn the story 
of the planet. And both have spies to report about far-off places. 

Where they differ is in the relative proportion of time devoted to 
arcade and action games ("3" is much more arcade-orientated) and in 
playing time ("2" is a one-session game which can be played several 
times as different heroes, while "3" is one big Cinemaware-ish game). 

I prefer the final, more arcade-oriented design, as I think this is 
probably what players want - though I could adapt the design, without 
much trouble, to form the basis of a political strategy alternative. 


The chosen design follows the book faithfully where Paul Atreides is 
concerned, and allows us to report just the right amount of background 
detail about events elsewhere. 

It has the right mix of arcade action and strategy to appeal to 
mainstream full-price game buyers, with the sort of mistake-tolerant 
sub-games that can be played on sight, yet which add greatly to the 
atmosphere and enjoyment of the game. 

And, being coded by Level 9, it has: 
* state-of-the-art animated 3D graphics, 
* digitised speech and sound, and 30 minute Midi soundtrack, 
* simultaneous versions for Amiga, ST and IBM (all graphic modes), 
* unrivalled compression - reducing the cost and inconvenience of 
  a multi-disk game. 


                          ARCADE GAMES 

The game starts by introducing the player to Dune, and telling how 
the Atreides came to Arrakis (planet Dune's proper name) and how 
Paul escaped to the Fremen. This is done by a linear sequence of 
text windows, short arcade games, and the sort of animated graphics 
which Level 9's HUGE system does so well. 

Early screens include the Reverend Mother Mohaim giving Paul the "Gom 
Jabbar" test for being "human", while explaining some of the 
background to the story. Then follows the space journey to Dune. 


The first game is the most impressive one, and immediately introduces 
the player to Dune. This is the ORNITHOPTER FLIGHT SIMULATOR. 

Flight over the deserts of Dune is by means of flapping-winged craft 
known as Ornithopters, and this game recreates Paul's first encounter 
with the realities of desert life. (Note: like all games, this will 
be played by Jessica if the player opts to be female). 

ORNITHOPTER FLIGHT SIMULATOR. The screen looks forwards from the 
ornithopter cockpit: Paul's head is in the foreground, and just to one 
side is a radar display of the surrounding area, and something showing 
the angle of the wings as they beat. Giant pistons pump on either 
side, and the whole effect is faintly Victorian. 

Through the windscreen is a 3D landscape, possibly bobbing up and 
down by a couple of pixels as the wings flap: the desert and mountains 
of Dune. Landmarks and vehicles, such as crawling space factories and 
other ornithopters, are shown either as sprites, or alternatively as 
filled polygons in the mid-ground - switching to sprites in the 
extreme distance or if they get very close. 

Use the joystick to control the ornithopter... 
* Left/right: 'thopter tilts and gradually turns. 
* Forward: 'thopter tilts, and starts to accellerate and climb.
  To take off, push forward to accelerate and gain height. When you 
  are high enough, pull backwards briefly to stop the climb. 
* Backwards: 'thopter tilts up, and starts to slow and descend.
  To land, pull the joystick backwards until the 'thopter stops 
  moving forwards and is descending (it won't fly backwards). 
* Push FIRE to shoot the craft's lasers. 

The ornithopter is first used for an emergency flight to the desert, 
where Paul has to land and rescue the workers of a doomed spice 
factory. No navigation or combat is involved. 

Later in the game, this sub-game is used for fighting off Harkonnen 
craft, when Paul is flying around the map in Lyet Kynes' ornithopter. 


Dune continues with animated screens, showing Harkonnen spaceships 
and the capture of Arrakis. Paul and Jessica are captured and taken 
to be killed in the desert, but manage to overcome their guards. 
(The knife fight game - see below - could be used here if you like, 
but I'd prefer to press on.) 

Escaping from the crashed 'thopter, Paul and Jessica must cross the 
flat sand before any sandworms arrive, but without rythmic footsteps 
as these will summon worms faster. This is the SAND WALK. 

SAND WALK. Background music signals the approach of a worm, as Paul 
and Jessica walk across the sands to safety. They are seen from the 
side, as 60-pixel high figures. Waggle the joystick to take each step, 
making sure not to do so rythmically, or the sands boom in time with 
Paul's steps and hasten the approach of a giant sandworm. 

Paul must reach the rocks before dying of thirst, and must not attract 
a sandworm: these are so big that only part of a mouth is ever seen in 
this sub-game, emerging from the sand to swallow the escapers. 


The escapers are not yet safe when they reach solid rock, for a 
sandworm has arrived to eat the 'thopter. And it will track them down 
soon, unless Paul completes a ROCK CLIMB and scales the cliffs to a 
cave far above. 

ROCK CLIMB. Paul's figure is seen from behind. The joystick moves 
a cursor; click on a limb to move it, then on the point on the cliff 
Paul should move that hand/foot to. Repeat. Paul slips if neither 
foot is on a hold, and falls if neither hand is on a hold. Again, 
the game is against the clock, and music gets steadily louder as 
the Sandworm slithers nearer. 


Paul and Jessica reach the cave and see the mouth of the sandworm 
chewing futilely at the entrance, in an attempt to get at them. 

Animated screens introduce the Fremen, for the cave is one of their 
Sietches, or underground communities. Their leader, Stilgar, explains 
the history of these people and Paul and Jessica are introduced to 
Spice. (Paul has to prove his qualities as a warrior so, again, there 
could be a knife fight game at this point.)  


Finally Paul (or Jessica) has to prove their worth to join the Fremen 
by a SANDWORM RIDE. This completes the player's introduction to 
Dune, and leads into the strategy game. 

SANDWORM RIDE  Paul waits near an animated "thumper", until an 
enormous (100*1000 pixel) worm rises out of the sand to engulf it. 

Paul, shown as a 16-pixel figure from the side, runs towards the 
sand worm and swings his hook to hit one of a line of crevices in its 
side. If he gets it right, he is swept up into the air; if he misses 
too many times then the worm crashes down upon him. 

Similar crevices open and close with the worm's movement, and Paul 
repeats this process several times to climb up its side. Then he is 
left riding the worm (see "Battle Map"), until he steers it to a 
Sietch (presumably where he started) and dismounts. 

(This game also occurs again, before the final battle when Paul leads 
his troops against the Harkonnen base).


Paul has now finished the linear introduction to Dune. Animated 
graphics and text describe how: the Fremen accept Paul as their 
leader, Chani accepts him as her lover, and they all accept Jessica 
as Reverend Mother. Thereafter Paul (or Jessica) controls the Fremen. 

The real game starts here. Paul travels about Dune, making allies and 
learning the weaknesses of the Harkonnens, meanwhile commanding his 
Fremen troops in a guerilla war. 


The STRATEGY MAP is useable at any time, though Paul can only order 
Fremen troops about if he is at the main base. The map is a 2 * 2
screen scrolling relief map of Arrakis (Dune), showing places as a 
conventional map does - click on something for details and to select 
it, or click twice to travel there. 

The Strategy Map shows all the known places on Dune: known Fremen 
and Harkonnen bases, Lyet Kynes' research base and so forth. Hidden 
places, such as the Smugglers' base and some Fremen Sietches, are 
added once Paul learns of them. 

To transfer Fremen troops or civilians to a place, Paul must be in 
the main Fremen base. He clicks on a small icon, which overlays the 
map, to switch into command mode - and then on one of the options 
which is displayed. To move people to a place, he pushes the joystick 
forwards. Pulling the joystick backwards evacuates them. But water and 
other bulk supplies cannot be moved, so Paul can't afford to move too 
many people to safety. 

Click twice on the Strategy Map to travel to the place selected. 
Movement is initially by Sandworm. The screen switches to the Battle 
Map (see below - an enlarged equivalent of the Strategy Map) and 
Paul's worm is seen travelling in a straight line across it - 
automatically heading for the place selected. Push the joystick if 
you want to disable "autopilot", and thereafter steer the worm with 
the joystick. Press FIRE to shoot (though the worm is your best 
weapon as it swallows whoever it collides with), and run into a rocky 
outcrop or a building to dismount. 

Once Paul has visited Lyet Kynes, he can travel in the latter's 
'thopter (at your choice), which flies across the Strategy Map in 
the same way as Sandworms move across the Battle Map. As the 
Strategy Map has a smaller scale, this is much faster, and also 
the 'thopter can cross rock and so reach places near the Harkonnen 
base at Arakeen. (But the 'thopter may be intercepted by enemy 
ornithopters, which calls up the flight simulator game for the fight). 


When Paul reaches his destination, the map screen is replaced by an 
animated LOCATION PICTURE of the place. 

LOCATION PICTURES. There are perhaps a dozen such pictures, one for 
every different type of place in the game. They include Lyet Kynes 
in his ecological lab, a spy in a dark corner of Arakeen, and 
smugglers beside their hidden landing pad. Obviously, similar places, 
such as Fremen Sietches, share one animated picture between them. 

Multiple-choice options allow Paul to negotiate or give orders, before 
he returns to the desert - so allowing the maximum of variation and 
interest in Paul's dealing with potential allies, but without 
requiring players to learn a parser, or do much real work.   


BATTLE MAP. This is an enlargement of the Strategy Map, about 12 * 12 
screens in total, showing places and geographic features, tiny people 
(perhaps 4-5 pixels across) and big sandworms - all from above. 

The Battle Map is used for Sandworm movement (see above) and for 
any battles where Paul personally takes part. He presses FIRE to 
shoot, or simply steers his sandworm over enemies. If Paul's 
sandworm is too badly injured, it dives into the sand and he must 
wait for fighting to cease before summoning another Worm. 


"Dune" Tactics. To win his guerilla war against the Harkonnens, Paul 
must increase his Fremen troops, whilst maximising enemy casualties. 
He only has a limited time, as the Sardaukar are seeking out Fremen 
bases and - even if the people escape - vital water is lost when each 
base is destroyed. Assuming Paul gains the advantage in numbers, he 
can lead his troops against the depleted enemies and defeat them. 

Paul can attempt the following tactics (amongst others)... 
* Visit Kynes to borrow his Ornithopter, for rapid movement. The game 
  is played against the clock (roughly 1 minute = 1 game day, but only 
  when travelling) and speed is valuable.  
* Discover the whereabouts of the hidden Fremen Sietches, and recruit 
  their warriors. 
* Promise the Smugglers whatever they want, to keep them from helping 
  the Harkonnens in the final battle. 
* Visit Arakeen city, to learn from spies where the enemy will attack. 
* Withdraw civilians from attack targets. (He can't evacuate too many 
  bases, though, as there is too little water in any Sietch to support 
  many evacuees.)
* Mass Fremen troops in just a few of the attack targets - to wipe out 
  the Sardaukar sent there. Repeat. 
* Use a lasgun-shield explosion where it will do most good (this 
  boobytrap is allowed once, in the hand-to-hand combat sub-game). 
* Obtain and use the "family atomics", at the right moment, to blow 
  a hole in the rock barrier around Arakeen and allow sandworms to 
  reach the Harkonnen base for the final attack. 
* When the odds are right (the Fremen having been reinforced, and the 
  Sardaukar whittled down), lead an attack against Arakeen. 

Obviously, Paul will not have to get everything right in order to win: 
but he must get very close to earn a maximum score. 


When enemy troops attack defended Fremen Sietches, HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT 
results (though the game is only played if Paul is present). 

HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT (used for e.g defensive battles). A Gauntlet- 
like game (with 32-pixel high people and realistic graphics) for 
combat in the Fremen's caves, or surface ruins. 

Use the joystick to move Paul in 8 directions, and FIRE to shoot. 


If the final attack on Arakeen is successful, the finale of the game 
is a KNIFE DUEL against the enemy champion. 

KNIFE DUEL. Paul and Feyd-Rautha are seen from the side, as 60-pixel 
high characters, and fight in the usual way. Controls are grouped to 
be as simple as possible (further simplification would only be 
possible with loss of functions, though this may yet be desirable)... 

   Without Fire     >>forwards>>     Fire Pressed     >>forwards>> 

Jump back    Jump   Jump forward     High Parry  High Slash  High Jab
          \    |    /                           \    |     /
Backwards - Nothing -    Forward     Parry      -  Slash   -  Jab
          /    |    \                           /    |     \
Duck back    Duck   Duck forward     Low Parry   Low Slash   Low Jab

Both players have electronic shields, which flare up when blows land: 
improving the graphics and reducing the strength of blows. 

When Paul wins, he is in the perfect position to blackmail the 
Emperor, and take control as ruler of the Galactic Empire. 


Conclusion. Obviously, this outline just represents a first look at 
"Dune", but I hope it demonstrates a game which captures the essence 
of the original, and shows the potential which this title has to be 
as good a game as it is a book. 
