REFERENCE CARD FOR TIME AND MAGIK
--------------------------------- 
This card tells you how to load and run Time and Magik on your 
computer, and lists the specific features of each version.


DISK LOADING INSTRUCTIONS 
-------------------------  
Look down the alphabetical list of computer types and follow the 
instructions for your computer. The underlined text is what you type, 
and remember to press the ENTER or RETURN key after each command. 

Amiga 500          Insert the game disk and turn on your Amiga. 
Amiga 1000/2000    Insert your Kickstart disk and turn on your Amiga. 
                   When it asks for Workbench, insert the game disk. 
Amstrad CPC 6128   Turn on your CPC (6128 or 464/664 expanded to 128K) 
                   and insert the game disk. Enter RUN"MENU"
Amstrad PCW        Insert your usual CP/M+ disk and turn on your PCW. 
                   Insert the game disk and enter MENU
Apple II           Insert the game disk and turn on your Apple II. 
Atari ST           Insert the game disk and turn on your ST. 
Atari XE or 800XL  Remove any cartridges. Insert the game disk. While 
                   holding down OPTION for at least 5 seconds, turn 
                   the Atari on. If nothing happens, turn off the 
                   Atari for 30 seconds and try again. 
BBC master or 128K+Turn on your BBC micro, insert the game disk and 
                   press SHIFT and BREAK together. 
CBM 64 or 128 disk Turn on your Commodore (while holding down the 
                   Commodore key, if you have a 128). Insert the game 
                   disk and enter LOAD"*",8,1
IBM PC and clones  Insert the normal operating system disk and turn on 
                   your IBM PC. Replace it with the game disk, and 
                   enter MENU
Mac,Mac+           Insert the normal operating system disk and turn on 
                   your Mac. Insert the game disk and double click on 
                   the MENU icon.

TAPE LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
-------------------------  
Put one of the game tapes in your recorder, look down the alphabetical 
list of computer types and follow the instructions for your computer. 
The underlined text is what you type, and remember to press the ENTER 
or RETURN key after each command. 

If the tape doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again.

Amstrad CPC tape   Turn on your CPC. If it has a disk drive, enter 
                   |TAPE 
                   Type RUN"" start the tape on play and press SPACE. 
Atari XE,800XL     Re  Turn on your MSX, enter RUN"CAS:" and play the tape. 
Spectrum 48K       Turn on the Spectrum, type LOAD"" and play the tape.
Spectrum 128/+2    Turn on the Spectrum, press ENTER and play the tape. 


SAVE ON DISK
------------ 
To save game positions from the disk version of Time and Magik, you 
first need a blank disk of your own. 

Before playing Time and Magik, format (initialize) this disk, using 
the ordinary software bought with your micro. (Exceptions to this are 
Apple II and Atari XE,  Turn on your MSX, enter RUN"CAS:" and play the tape. 
Spectrum 48K       Turn on the Spectrum, type LOAD"" and play the tape.
Spectrum 128/+2    Turn on the Spectrum, press ENTER and play the tape. 


SAVE ON DISK
------------ 
To save game positions from the disk version of Time and Magik, you 
first need a blank disk of your own. 

Before playing Time and Magik, format (initialize) this disk, using 
the ordinary software bought with your micro. (Exceptions to this are 
Apple II and Atari XE,800XL disks - Time and Magik uses its own disk 
format on these computers and will initialize the disk itself.) 

When playing the game, enter SAVE and follow the instructions displayed. 

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES, and follow any 
instructions asking for one word from the story. When entering a file 
name, you can either type a short word such as POS1, or use the full 
format permitted by your particular computer. 


SAVE ON TAPE 
------------ 
To save game positions from a cassette version of Time and Magik, you 
need a blank cassette of your own. 

When playing the game, start a blank tape on RECORD and enter SAVE 
(if the cassette doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again). When the 
game starts running again, e.g to prompt for your next command by 
displaying ">" or "What now?", stop the tape. 

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES, then follow any 
instructions asking for one word from the story. Finally, rewind the 
tape on which the position was saved, and play it (if the cassette 
doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again).


SAVE IN MEMORY
-------------- 
To save your game position in memory (all but 48K Spectrums and 64K 
Amstrad CPCs allow this), enter RAM SAVE

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RAM RESTORE 

Remember that saving in memory is very quick and convenient - it is 
an ideal way of saving your position before trying something risky - 
but a RAM SAVEd position will be lost if your computer is turned off 
or crashes, so SAVE to disk or tape occasionally. 

Note also that the UNDO command is available on all versions which have 
RAM SAVE. UNDO takes you "back in time" to before you last moved: it's 
a bit like RAM RESTORE where the corresponding RAM SAVEs are automatic, 
except that UNDO can be used many times in succession on larger micros. 


COPYRIGHT
---------
Please remember that Time and Magik is protected by copyright and took 
a lot of time and technological "magik" to produce, so make no more 
than one copy, for your own use, to keep only as long as you have the 
original game. Before copying any game you must check the copyright 
conditions in its documentation. 


                        ADDITIONAL FEATURES 
                        ------------------- 
The versions of Level 9 adventures on large micros tend to have more 
facilities than those on smaller machines. Here is a summary of the 
additional features available with Time and Magik...

AMIGA FEATURES: 
-------------- 
* colour pictures (use the mouse, with its left button pressed, to 
  slide the picture up and down);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disk loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  BACK SPACE; 
* README file. For more information, boot the Amiga with Workbench, 
  then insert the game disk and double click on its icon and README.TXT. 

AMSTRAD CPC DISK FEATURES:
------------------------- 
* colour pictures (use F8 and F2 to slide the picture up and down). To 
  see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is waiting for 
  you to type something - then flip the disk over;
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disk loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* README file. For more information, turn on the CPC, insert the game 
  disk and enter LOAD"README" and LIST
  
AMSTRAD PCW DISK FEATURES (the PCW and CPC versions share a disk):
-----------------------------------------------------------------
* black-and-white pictures. To see more pictures, wait until the game 
  has loaded and is waiting for you to type something - then flip the 
  disk over;
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disk loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* README file. For more information, boot the PCW with CP/M+ as usual, 
  then insert the game disk and enter TYPE README.TXT

ATARI ST FEATURES:
-----------------
* pictures on colour and black-and-white displays (use the mouse, with 
 monstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration of 
  Time and Magik, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game and WAIT 
  UNTIL THE FIRST PICTURE HAS FINISHED LOADING and the game is waiting 
  for a command. If necessary, press SPACE a couple of times so the 
  game can print the rest of its start-up message and reach the first 
  prompt, ">" or "What now?". Only then should you press Alternate R
* an interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and Gnome Ranger, 
  letting them bemonstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration of 
  Time and Magik, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game and WAIT 
  UNTIL THE FIRST PICTURE HAS FINISHED LOADING and the game is waiting 
  for a command. If necessary, press SPACE a couple of times so the 
  game can print the rest of its start-up message and reach the first 
  prompt, ">" or "What now?". Only then should you press Alternate R
* an interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and Gnome Ranger, 
  letting them benefit from new features. Copy the previous game to a 
  new disk, then copy GAME.PRG from the Time and Magik disk, replacing 
  the old version. Hey presto! Variable text size etc. 

COMMODORE 64/128 DISK FEATURES: 
------------------------------ 
* colour pictures (use the cursor keys to slide the picture up and 
  down). To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is 
  waiting for you to type something - then flip the disk over;
* fast performance when the pictures are turned off; partly because 
  loading from disk takes a little while (even though we use a good 
  turbo) and not needing to maintain a moveable split screen (the 
  division between picture and text) frees more processing power. 

IBM PC FEATURES: 
---------------
* pictures in MGA, EGA and CGA modes. (To cope with so many display 
  modes, the disk just contains one set of pictures and converts them 
  on output when MGA or CGA is chosen);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disk loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  Backspace; 
* README file. For more information, boot the PC from its normal 
  operating system disk, then insert the game disk and enter 
  TYPE README.TXT. 
* Demonstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration of 
  Time and Magik, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game by entering 
  MENU and waiting for it to load. Then, before doing anything else, 
  press ALT R. Continue by choosing a display format as usual.  
* an interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and Gnome Ranger, 
  letting them benefit from new features. Copy the previous game to a 
  new disk, then copy AINT.EXE, MENU.EXE and MENU.TXT from the Time and 
  Magik disk, replacing the old versions. Hey presto! CGA graphics etc. 

MAC FEATURES 
------------
* black-and-white pictures (use the mouse, with its button pressed, to 
  slide the picture up and down);
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE. 
