









Dear Dicon,  Some comments on your "Legend of Billy the Kid" pics: 

2) The blacksmith is rather large to animate. I recommend that you 
   halve his area. 

4) Some people may be confused by the change from the flat landscape 
   around Bonito to this deep maze of canyons, and continuity is at 
   risk. Secondly, it will be difficult or impossible to efficiently 
   animate Billy in this position. 

   It's a good picture, but could you try something a bit closer to 
   the original concept - i.e with the possee galloping across fairly 
   flat ground, and Billy vertical so I can scroll him. 

5) Good, but why is the bonfire (which is the source of light for the 
   picture) not in the centre? And why is there a sun and horizon? 
   Please centralise the bonfire, and (to reassure me) give the 
   picture the sort of rounded outline shown in the sketch. 

6) Good. The microphone looks a bit different from what I expected, 
   in that it has an obvious looping wire and inverted U around the 
   central microphone, but I assume they must look like this. There's 
   a danger of the chimney breast looking stone-cladded. 

7) Good. 6-pointed star, please. 

8) This has several problems. Please: 
   a) Smooth out the bottom left of the picture and make it less 
      clittered. Lose the stream. Add a track for the buggy to follow; 
      it can start curving down at the extreme right of the image. 
   b) Lose the mid-ground tree on the right, and give the ambusher(s) 
      something to lurk behind (e.g move the tree into the extreme 
      foreground) so that it is obvious Tunstall&co could not possible 
      realise their danger. Tunstall should stop with his horses' 
      heads level with the leftmost ambusher's nose. 
   c) Make the ambusher(s) smaller and closer to Tunstall in size; 
      currently they look too distant from him. 
   d) I'd like a single ambusher in both "8" and "9". 

9) Less greenery to left and right (by which I mean that it should 
   intrude on half as many cells as shown. And make the buggy a bit 
   bigger. You are right to make the buggy face diagonally right. 

10) Good. 

Etc) Stagecoach: good. Buggy: too solid, and a bit big in relation 
     to its rider. The wheels are the right sizes, though. I am also 
     worried that your Billy & Pat aren't enough like the originals. 

Please send revisions for: 4 and 8, and any others that you are unsure 
about and can do easily.  