     "BILLY THE KID" - DESIGN. Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 


"Billy the Kid" is a big 16-bit game in the Cinemaware/Ubisoft mould, 
for one player, or two players on linked machines. See the "outline 
design" for an introduction. 

Major features are: 

1) Billy the Kid is famous worldwide as a Wild West hero in the Robin 
   Hood tradition, who turned to crime for vengeance against the rich 
   men who murdered his friends in the "Lincoln County War". Sheriff 
   Pat Garrett, the second famous hero in this classic revenge Western, 
   is the incorruptible marshal, determined to enforce the law, even 
   if it means hunting down one of his own friends. 

2) Nine linked arcade games, and a central strategy game played on an 
   authentic scrolling map of Lincoln County, west of the Pecos. All 
   on an accurate Wild West theme. 

3) Over 2 meg of animated graphics. In addition to the nine arcade 
   games, "Billy the Kid" includes twenty animated pictures to help 
   tell the story. You meet an Old Timer panning for gold, smoke the 
   peace pipe with the chief of an Indian village, and go upstairs 
   in the bordello etc. Pictures have extensive animation and exceed 
   2 megabytes before compression (not counting blank areas of course).

4) Digitised sound effects, with a sound track including half-an-hour 
   of MIDI music. (This is excellent on the Amiga, and on IBM PCs 
   with major sound boards - Roland, Sound Blaster, AdLib - and is 
   quite good on STs). 

5) Several games in one. A single player chooses to be either Billy 
   the Kid, or Pat Garrett, requiring two very different strategies 
   and so extending play. Or two people can play simultaneously on 
   connected micros, each controlling one of the heroes. 


Example of play: 

Each player moves a binoculars cursor across the map, clicks on any 
place they want to visit and the view zooms in to an appropriate 
arcade sequence. 

Billy has the more straightforward task: he rides the range, seeking 
opportunities for revenge against his enemies, and takes every 
chance to rob and steal from them without getting caught. Meanwhile, 
Pat Garrett has to combine hunting Billy and other outlaws, with 
managing his budget and getting re-elected sheriff. 

Billy might tie up his horse in Main Street, Santa Fe, swagger into 
the saloon and discuss robbery targets over a game of cards and a 
glass of red eye. Then join up with his gang to run off a herd of 
Murphy-Dolan cattle, and take them across the Texas border to sell 
in El Paso. Meanwhile Pat could track a gang of outlaws to their 
hide-out and shoot it out with the badmen. 

Billy wins if he can kill, or bankrupt by robbery, all the members 
of the Murphy-Dolan faction. And Pat wins if he can bring law and 
order to all the towns "west of the Pecos", and finally track down 
Billy. Whatever else happens, the game always ends, in true Wild West 
style, with a climactic duel between the two heroes. 

                         GAME OUTLINE 

LOADING SEQUENCE. The game starts with the death of Billy's friend, 
Tunstall. The view is from behind Tunstall's buggy, blocked on the 
road by four distant men with shotguns. The picture animates:  
- viewpoint rises in a parallax scroll, then stops;  
- Tunstall half-raises his open hands; 
- the men point their guns and fire; 
- Tunstall's body spins about and falls; 
- after a delay, quieter gunshots are heard; 
- the men run off into the trees; 
- Billy arrives from the opposite side and fires after them. 

A second picture shows Billy kneeling over Tunstall's body, head down, 
hand on Tunstall's shoulder. Then: 
- Billy raises his head and looks angrily into the distance; 
- he draws his six shooter and fires 6 shots and 4 clicks upwards; 
- the scene parallax scrolls upwards; 
- the words "Billy the Kid" form in a curve above Billy's head; 
- scrolling text reports Billy's vow of revenge.  


ATTRACT MODE. If you do nothing, the game goes into an attract mode 
to illustrate its features. This will show the most graphically 
interesting games we can get onto the first disk - and the decision 
on its precise contents will have to be left until we know how big 
specific game programs are. 

Press fire, a mouse button or a key to start play (any of these forms 
of control can be used while playing) and display the introduction menu. 


INTRODUCTION MENU. The screen shows Billy's and Pat's faces, with 
brief descriptions, plus a one/two player box. Click on the one(s) 
you want. (We'll use a pistol cursor, and a ricochet sound effect 
when FIRE is pressed). 

This screen also makes you to choose mouse, joystick or keyboard 
control for the game. 

If two people want to play, they should connect the RS232 ports of 
their computers, and the game starts by checking that one is playing 
Pat Garrett and one Billy the Kid. 


GAME MAP. The game uses a 2*2 screen scrolling relief map, of Lincoln 
county around 1880 (at this date, it was almost exactly the SE quarter 
of New Mexico State). The map shows the lawless lands west of the 
Pecos: from the Texas border, west across New Mexico to the Rio Grande, 
and from El Paso north to Santa Fe. The landscape is authentic, but 
tilted away from the viewer to reduce north-south distances. Places are 
shown pictorially, and there is some animation (e.g pinhead cows near 
the ranch pictures, turning wind pumps, and passing wagon trains).   

Railway ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++         ^
         ||      Santa Fe Town            |        Goodnight- 
         ||                               | Bitter   Loving 
         ||                               | Lake     Trail  Fort
 |========|                               +-------+    ^    Sumner
 ||         Jicariula                       Fritz |    ^
 ||         Mountains                       Ranch |   ^     Chisum
 ||                                               +-------+ Ranch 
 ||              White Oaks     Sierra Capitan       ^    |         
 ||                 Town          Mountains        Good-  |         
 ||                                                night- |         
 ||         Fort           Lincoln        Roswell  Loving | Dedrick 
 ||San      Stanton      City (Town)       Town    Trail  |  Ranch     
 ||Andreas                         -----------------------+         
 ||Mounts   Mescalero      Tunstall         Beckwith  ^   |         
 ||         Apache         Ranch             Ranch    ^   |         
 ||                                -----------------------+
 || Mesilla               Sierra Guadalupe   Reed     ^   | 
 || Town                     Mountains       Ranch    ^   | 
 |================|                                    ^  | 
   [MEXICO]      || El Paso       <- [TEXAS] ->        ^  | 
                 ||  Town                              ^  | 
  Rio Grande     ||                                       | 
 (uncrossable)-> ||    Pecos River (readily crossable) -> | 
                

The map does not show everything at the start. Outlaw hideouts and 
temporary robbery targets, e.g a train carrying wages for the local 
army, are only added if you hear about them.

You move an animated cursor (which looks like a sideways-8 and 
represents binoculars) across the map, and click (press FIRE) on any 
place you want to visit. This opens the binoculars into a much larger 
binocular-shaped window (in the same way as GEM windows open on the 
ST, with more details of the place (including its name). Significantly 
move the binoculars to close this window again. 

Click again to visit. Billy/Pat is shown as a small figure riding 
across the map, followed by an arcade sequence. Either: 
* an animated picture with someone in the foreground (e.g a friendly 
  farmer in front of his property) and a multiple-choice menu. 
* or, for more interesting places, an appropriate arcade game. For 
  example, if you visit a town, you find yourself on Main Street and 
  can walk or ride about "Sierra-style" (people are 60-pixels tall). 

Timeout. In one corner of the map is a "timeout" icon. Click on this 
to enter timeout (pause) mode, which stops time passing and opens a 
menu to allow you to Continue, Save, Load, Quit or Restart. 

(In two player mode, "timeout" only pauses you, not your opponent, 
and the Save and Load options are omitted. Quit and Restart mean that 
you flee the state, conceding victory to your opponent.) 


                        STRATEGY OVERVIEW 

Both heroes' scores are their reputations: life was short in the Wild 
West, and money soon spent, but reputations outlast everything. 

Billy probably wins if he kills or bankrupts all his enemies, or if 
Pat's reputation falls so low that he is thrown out of office. And 
Pat probably wins if he can track down Billy at his hideout (finding 
it takes the reward money from defeating the other outlaw gangs, to 
pay a really expert tracker), or if Billy is jailed a fifth time - 
when there is no escape. 


Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid mix information gathering (visiting 
places and people, to learn the locations of outlaws and opportunities 
for crime), with committing and preventing crimes respectively. 

When the game starts, the country is lawless: there is a group of 
outlaws near every town and Billy can rob almost at will. But every 
time Pat Garrett defeats an outlaw gang, he brings law to its town 
and Billy has trouble organizing robberies there. Each success also 
increases Pat's budget. There will be some roaming outlaws in the 
wilderness, for Billy to recruit and use to undo Pat's work in lawful 
towns, but basically Pat steadily reduces Billy's opportunities for 
crime - setting a limit on his score and increasing the chance that 
he will be tracked down. 

Neither Billy the Kid, nor Pat Garrett can die, except in a final 
showdown duel between them. If they meet early in the game, they 
either have a typically cliched Western conversation, or else one is 
run out of town. If defeated in combat, a hero is merely wounded and 
nursed back to health (Billy may also be jailed and have to escape). 


BILLY'S STRATEGY. Billy can commit a variety of crimes: bank robbery, 
cattle rustling, train robbery, and the occasional justified killing. 
By means of these, he hopes to bankrupt or drive away the men of the 
Murphy-Dolan faction. 

But if Billy just commits crimes randomly, he is unlikely to do well. 
Most banks hold little money most of the time, most trains are not 
carrying gold shipments, and so on. And, what is worse, each crime 
encourages the victim to buy a bigger safe and hire more guards for 
next time. 

Billy needs to talk to local people, and meet up with other outlaws, 
in order to learn which are the most profitable targets for crime. 
Of course, Billy needs to find out who is worth talking to; some 
people are liars; and some of them need bribes or other help before 
they will help Billy in return (if Billy has money, an option is added 
to the menu). Billy is more likely to be helped if he is generous with 
his money, and if he avoids anything resembling murder. 


PAT'S STRATEGY. Pat could single-mindedly try to capture Billy, but 
this would mean letting other criminals run riot and probably get 
him sacked as sheriff. So he must try to jail every outlaw gang in 
Lincoln County - with the joint aims of pleasing the public, making 
Billy's life harder and earning enough rewards to pay an elite tracker 
to hunt down Billy's hideout. 

If Pat, or five deputies (out of the roughly ten that he can afford) 
are in town when a crime is committed, Pat gets the chance to lead a 
posse and track the gang responsible to their lair for a shoot-out. 
But this is expensive, as posse members want bonuses and don't like 
taking casualties - and gangsters are less likely to venture into town 
when lawmen are around. So Pat should only guard very tempting targets. 

What is worse is that Pat will find that crime victims clamour for 
police protection (even though outlaws are hardly going to return to 
a newly-empty bank) and he has to assign some of his scarce lawmen to 
quieten them down.

So Pat must also talk to and help local people, just as Billy does 
(above) to learn the whereabouts of gang hideouts and what crimes 
are planned, without wasting his budget. Then he can hit the outlaws 
hard, with all his deputies, and profit from the reward money. 


WIDER GAME. To help players get going, they are frequently approached 
by local citizens (especially near the start) with tales to tell and 
rumours to pass on. Later on, they will learn which of the many shop 
clerks or ranchers are worth talking to for information. 

"Billy the Kid" is played against the background of the Lincoln County 
war, and keeps track of about 20 pseudo-random sub plots. (E.g peasants 
need defending from a corrupt local politician, or Billy's friend needs 
rescuing from jail). Billy's and Pat's need for information and help 
from locals, is what draws players into the full variety of the game. 

                              PLACES 

The following Lincoln County places are permanently on the map: 

Forts: 
  Stanton 
    Bad Colonel Dudley and the 9th Cavalry (blacks + white officers)
  Sumner 

Ranches: 
  Beckwith 
  Chisum 
  Dedrick 
  Fritz 
  Reed 
  Tunstall - initially run by good Mrs McSween, who was then bought 
    out cheaply by bad Brady.  

Towns: 
  El Paso 
    Undertaker 
    Wire Office 
    News Office - "El Paso Sun" 
    "blank" 
    Bank    - "Lone Star Bank" 
    Saloon  - "El Dorado Saloon" 
    Sheriff - "Law Office"  
    Store   - "Guns, Pistols, Ammunition, Hardware" 
  Lincoln City 
    Murphy & Dolan General Store (enemy HQ) 
    Lincoln County Bank 
    McSween House - burnt later, after McSween died here in battle
    Tunstall Store of clerk Sam Corbet (who hid Billy) until closed 
    Ike Stockton's Saloon 
    Corral, beside Lincoln Plaza. Sheriff Brady shot here.  
    District Court House 
    Old Jail 
    Sheriff Office - Sheriff Brady, then Peppin.  
    Torreon (Indian Tower) 
  Mesilla 
    Saloon - "Diamond Lil's" 
    Bank   - "Catron Mutual Bank" 
    General Store 
    Doctor 
  Roswell 
    Sheriff 
    Undertaker 
    "blank" 
    Hotel - "Roswell Hotel" 
    Bank - "Shamrock Bank"  
    Turner & Jones Merchants. Turner led bad posse against McSween 
    Post Office of Ash Upson, who provides honest info to Pat 
  Santa Fe 
    Saloon - "Casey's" 
    Doctor 
    Hotel  - "Zang's" 
    Saloon - "Golden Nugget" dancing girls  
    Undertaker 
    First National Bank of Santa Fe - run by corrupt Santa Fe ring
    Telegraph 
    Courthouse 
    Jail 
    Newspaper - "New Mexican" 
    Livery Stables 
  White Oaks 
    Saloon    - "The B'You Saloon" 
    Bank      - "Nineth State Bank" 
    Newspaper - "Epitath" 
    General Store - "Guns, Pistols, Ammunition, Hardware" 
    Livery Stables  - "W.O.Corral" 

Etc: 
  Mescalero Apache Reservation 
    "Buckshot" Roberts solo-ambushes Billy near here
  Prospector's Diggings 
  Cow Herds 
    near ranches  
  Railroad Train 
    runs along the track. Occasionally carries gold 
  Wagon Train 

And the following places appear once they are found: 

Outlaw hideouts: 
  Regulators (Tom O'Foliard) at Los Portales, NE of Fort Sumner. 
  El Paso: The Fugitives (Sam Newfield) 
  Lincoln City: Seven Rivers Gang (Bob Olinger) 
  Mesilla: Dona Ana Bunch (John Kinney) 
  Roswell: Jesse Evans gang of rustlers
  Santa Fe: Cooper Gang (Tom Cooper) of rustlers, on Texas Border 
  White Oaks: Socorro Vaqueros (Pete Stewart) 

Small Buildings: 
  Three peasant farms, for if you do good deeds for "Mexicans" 
  Blazer's Mill, a deserted shack, where "Buckshot" Roberts is met. 
  

                              PEOPLE

"Billy The Kid" has about fifty unique people in the game, typically 
seen in the foreground with animated scenery behind them. For example, 
a clerk will be seen at the counter of his shop, and a prospector 
against the background of his diggings. 

These people are built up identikit fashion (to keep the volume of 
graphics reasonable) out of animated parts. Thus they all are all 
different, but all their eyes blink, their mouths move when they 
tell you things, they twitch their eyebrows and so on.. 

You talk to people by selecting from a multiple-choice menu at the 
bottom of the screen - somewhat similar, but better implemented, 
to the mechanism in "It Came From The Desert". 

Some people are always found in the same place...  
* Pioneers: one person for every place on the map, except towns. 
  E.g a rancher for each ranch, a trail boss in front of the wagon 
  train, a gang leader at each outlaw base. These people are static, 
  and you meet one when you visit practically anywhere unless -  
  the place is "mysteriously deserted", or you go straight into an 
  arcade game, having been for example been met by gunfire. 
* Shopkeepers: one person for every shop or sheriff's office, 
  and one bartender for every bar. 
* Bums: occasional people who hang around the sidewalks (e.g in a 
  hillbilly rocking chair). Walk up to them to talk. 

While some move about... 
* Cowboys: Billy or Pat will occasionally meet other riders while 
  travelling. These meetings are "random" (in that they occur 
  regardless of where the player is going, and what else they 
  may be doing) and are particularly useful early in the game, as 
  cowboys can introduce players to the events of Lincoln County. 
* Peasants are also met at "random". They are often Mexicans, and 
  generally have hard luck stories. Helping them earns bonus points, 
  and they are sometimes useful later. 
* Badmen: a few opportunists, including outlaws and bounty hunters, 
  who hope to profit from the Lincoln County war. 

Most static people are unnamed (apart from Billy and Pat's second- 
in-commands Tom O'Foliard and Barney Mason). But all mobile people 
have names, though in some cases these may not be mentioned.

The main function of all these people, apart from making the prairie 
looked "lived in", is to provide information to Billy and Pat. Some 
of them come up and tell you things, and others provide local gossip 
when asked (or may be bribed). Such gossip, of course, may include 
information about when the railroad brings gold to pay the wages of 
the local cavalry - or when a ranch will have assembled a herd of 
stock in preparation to selling them. 

The majority of people (i.e those not known to History) have their 
faces and personalities built up pseudo-randomly at the start of 
each game. Thus your informant in one game might be replaced at his 
job by a tight-lipped know-nothing in the next. 

Not everyone is worth talking to (you tended to live longer in the 
Wild West if you kept your mouth shut) and have no information to 
give. Of the rest, some will be natural liars (and hence unreliable), 
and some will be biased towards Pat Garrett or Billy the Kid - and 
so help one but lie to the other. Some will only help you, after 
you have helped - or bribed - them. 

During each game, you will soon find out who to visit in each region, 
to learn the news. 


             CAST, SUB-PLOTS, INFORMATION AND CRIMES 

Pat or Billy 
 1) A Mexican Peasant is met in the desert and explains he is about 
    to be run off his land by Anglo ranchers. If the player agrees 
    to help, this goes straight into a defensive shootout for bonus 
    reputation.  
 2) In a bar, a lady is being pestered by a notorious gunslinger. She 
    asks for help and you get the chance to challenge him for a bonus. 
 3) Ditto, with a Mexican picked on by cowboys. Challenge them for a 
    bonus and they walk off, but ambush you later in town. 
 4) Meet a sick man in the desert. Take him to Santa Fe (travel there 
    next) for a bonus. 
 5) Soldier at Fort Sumner tells you that the army are being cheated 
    by the Murphy-Dolans, who have the meat contract. (Note: Fort 
    Sumner is a "good" fort, under the control of Colonel Baxter, while 
    Fort Stanton is run by corrupt Colonel Dudley). When the Murphy- 
    Dolans (MD's) are busy, e.g making their next delivery, visit their 
    store in town and get their copy of the books to take to the Fort. 
    (If the MuD's are there, they gunfight Billy or refuse to admit 
    Pat). This earns status, and cuts off the MD's income. 

Pat Only 
11) If Pat is about to defeat a gang in a shootout, the leader calls 
    a truce and barters their escape (i.e the hideout location changes 
    and is hidden again) in return for: 
    * a tip-off if Billy joins them on a crime, or 
    * an offer to leave the territory, or 
    * the location of some buried gold. 
12) Meet Texan Posse in the desert. Lie about Billy having stolen 
    Texan cattle, and they join as unpaid deputies and will join any 
    posse against Billy for a period. 
13) Barney Mason reports the escape of an outlaw from Santa Fe. Pat 
    can track him (without needing a posse) for a reward. 
14) If Pat doesn't rapidly transfer at least one mobile deputy to a 
    town which has just been robbed, a pompous local mayor accosts him
    with the request for protection. Pat loses status, and failing to 
    comply with the request loses more. 
15) The same figure requests that Pat runs a local vagrant out of town 
    and enforce a bogus claim against the prospector. Pat should 
    refuse, as the local people always tend to favour the underdog. 
16) While tracking Pat encounters various outlaws and must let them go, 
    or else send them to jail with part of his posse. Outlaws include 
    Joseph Cook from Texas (with two stolen horses), John Josua Webb 
    (who had escaped from Las Vegas jail), George Davis (horse thief), 
17) At one siege, Carlyle from the posse offers stupidly to go inside to 
    negotiate. The defenders hold him until he manages to bob up to look 
    around for a while and runs off. If Pat shoots him, the posse stop 
    fighting and the outlaws escape. 
18) One outlaw gang will be trapped in an old building (the standard 
    one used for Mexican homesteads etc) when Pat catches up with them. 
    He can either fight, or prepare a siege and send out for supplies. 
    The roasting barbecue smells make the gang surrender. (Real event).  

Billy Only 
21) When Billy visits the Mescaleros, he finds the beef they are 
    entitled to under treaty has been diverted to a Murphy-Dolan ranch. 
    If Billy's next crime is cattle rustling from there, he is asked 
    if he wants to take them to the Indians - if so, he earns no money 
    but more reputation. Plus, at any one future time, he can ask the 
    Indians to fake an uprising and get the governor to draw off all 
    Pat's deputies to prevent it.  
22) When Billy has enough money, he randomly meets a widow woman who 
    needs almost all of it (a round amount equal to about 80-90%) to 
    pay off her mortgage. Giving it to her earns bonus reputation. 
23) Desert Peasant tells you his family are sick. Agree to travel to 
    their house and stay there for a bonus (use same picture as for 
    when healing, but with Billy and Peasant figures rather than 
    nurse). While there, an outlaw arrives with news of a gold 
    consignment at the bank - but it's a bluff, the safe is empty and 
    if Billy leaves to travel there, he gets challenged in the street 
    by a bounty hunter. 
24) On one random journey in the Indian reservation area, "Buckshot" 
    Roberts is waiting to ambush the Regulators (actually at Blazer's 
    Mill). He calls on the gang to surrender, and there follows a 
    variant of the "country ambush" shootout game, except that 
    Roberts is the only enemy. He pops up at several positions in 
    the rocks, and needs to be hit many times to die. 
25) The "Seven Rivers" and "Jesse Evans" gangs ambush Billy in town. 
26) Billy rescues his old friend Segura from jail (earning himself a 
    free bonus rescue by Segura when he's captured the fifth time). 
27) Tom Cooper has lots of counterfeit money, brought in by an 
    Easterner called Duncan, and offers this instead of his share in 
    a robbery. Billy loses reputation if he gives it to his friends, 
    but can arrange to buy cattle and sell them across the border - 
    as if he stole them but with much more time. 
28) When Billy is in Lincoln, he overhears that Sheriff Brady is on 
    his way to ambush McSween. Billy can stop this by a duel with 
    Brady (a poor shot). 
29) Jose Miguel Sedillo - friend of Billy's, informs him of attempted 
    horse-robbery on Tunstall Ranch, while this is being run by Mrs 
    McSween. If he goes there, he gets to fight a defensive shootout. 
30) Billy randomly meets Joe Grant, drunk in a saloon. He shows Billy 
    a stolen pearl-handled pistol, and Billy has the opportunity to 
    rotate the barrel to an empty chamber. The gun will then just 
    click when Joe makes Billy fight a duel later. 


                             SCORING 

Both heroes' scores are their reputations. 

Billy's main aim is to kill or bankrupt all of the Murphy-Dolan 
faction: the ranchers and cowboys responsible for murdering Tunstall. 
He scores for: 
* every enemy killed or driven from the state, 
* every crime commits, with bigger scores for bigger crimes (This 
  aspect of Billy's score is reflected in the price on his head, and 
  hence the number of bounty hunters pursuing him),  
* doing good deeds, e.g defending a widow's land against marauding 
  cattlemen. 

Pat Garrett's main aim is to capture or kill Billy. He scores for: 
* each time Billy is captured, 
* every robbery thwarted by deputies on guard, 
* every outlaw gang defeated, whether or not Billy was involved, 
  and especially if they have recently committed notorious robberies 
  (this may entail leaving Billy alone for a while), 
* every good deed done.  
* And Pat loses points if he ignores pleas for his help. 

The hero who completes his tasks first, and so triggers the final 
duel between Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid - see just below - earns 
a bonus, as does its survivor. 


                           WINNING

In real life, the winner was Billy the Kid, despite the fact that 
Pat Garrett shot him, as he is the most famous. In the same way, 
the winner of the game is not the survivor, but the hero with the 
highest reputation at the end. 

Neither hero can die, except in a final showdown duel between the 
two of them. They are wounded instead and nursed back to health 
(losing reputation and wasting a little time) and, in Billy's case, 
may be thrown into prison. Billy is also imprisoned (again wasting 
some time) if captured by Pat Garrett or Pat's deputies. Fortunately, 
Billy was very successful at escaping from jail. 

The game ends in a climactic duel, when: 
* Billy has killed or bankrupted all his enemies, or 
* Billy has to escape from jail a fifth time (this time fails), or 
* Pat Garrett faces Billy at his hideout (finding this requires 
  enough reward money to pay the most expert tracker and hence, in 
  turn, that Pat had defeated all the outlaw gangs), or 
* Pat's reputation falls so far that he is thrown out of office, or 
* the time limit is up - this shouldn't really ever happen, but I 
  want a failsafe ending so that the game does not go on forever if, 
  e.g, the computer-controlled opponent is unusually incompetent.

The speed of draw in the duel is biased in favour of whoever has the 
higher reputation at the time. After the duel is over, the loser is 
presumed dead, but his body is removed by friends before this can be 
confirmed, allowing for a sequel. The winner of the duel survives of 
course, and gets a score bonus, and the overall game is won by whoever 
has the higher reputation. 

There is no reason why the two heroes should not meet earlier, but 
this is not allowed to trigger a duel prematurely unless both Billy 
and Pat agree to fight. 

If Billy meets Pat in town, on the sidewalk for example (you bump 
into someone to meet them), they each decide between: 
* ending the game with a duel (if both agree); 
* if the town is not law abiding, Billy can choose to run Pat out 
  of town (Pat can't return until Billy leaves); 
* if the town is law abiding, Pat can try and arrest Billy. Billy 
  then runs away, and has to GETAWAY (see game) past Pat's Deputies; 
* just talking. 
(What this means in practice is that the players in a two player game 
can end the game early if they agree. And that as the game progresses, 
the balance of power tilts steadily towards Sheriff Garret and - as in 
reality - Billy should take ever more care to avoid him.)

The two heroes cannot meet out of town: if e.g Billy tries to visit a 
ranch where Pat is already talking to the rancher, he is stopped from 
going there. This is justified on the basis that you are at a great 
disadvantage when approaching an alert enemy across the open prairie. 

So apart from when they bump into one another in town, the only 
meetings between the two heroes are when they find each other on 
opposing sides of an arcade game - e.g if Pat and a group of deputies 
are guarding a bank which Billy attacks, or if both heroes get caught 
up in the same bar-room brawl. 

                              LAW 

When the game starts, there is one outlaw gang associated with each 
New Mexican town. Gang members are the source of most of the rumours 
in the local saloon, and once Billy has made contact their hideout 
is added on his map nearby. 

While there is a gang around, the town remains lawless. It is risky 
for Pat to be seen (he may be challenged to a duel) and the local 
bank will be regularly robbed. Any money passing nearby is at risk. 

If Pat defeats the local gang, the town becomes lawful. Pat is now 
safe on the streets, but Billy runs the risk of being recognised and 
challenged. Also, if the two heroes meet on the streets, Billy has 
the upper hand in a lawless town, while Pat does in a lawful one. 

There is little information to be gained in lawful saloons, but both 
players can still look at wanted posters or read the press. 

(The enlarged details of a town, seen through the binoculars, include 
whether it is lawful of not.) 


                          ARCADE GAMES 

Player decisions, and random events, often trigger arcade games. A 
small window opens upon the current screen, with text describing the 
controls of the game to come, so that you can read them while the 
game loads. 

The animations mentioned for each game are not a complete list. I have 
not attempted to list those which are inevitable when people move, 
for example. And every face of a reasonable size in "Billy The Kid" 
has eyes that blink. Mouths move when people talk, and faces change 
expression (in a limited way) when appropriate. 


                  QUICK DRAW DUEL (Billy or Pat) 

This happens when e.g you challenge a cheat at cards, or between the 
two heroes at the end of the game. 

You stand in the foreground, facing your opponent in the distance. 
Then a bell rings, allowing both to draw their guns and fire. 

Press fire to start the draw, steer the sights onto your opponent, 
and press fire again to shoot. If you miss, the recoil will jerk 
the gun slightly off target, but against easy opponents it may be 
possible to aim and shoot again before the opponent fires (and 
hits). The winner is whoever hits first. 

If your enemy is hit, he falls backwards with a small red patch on 
his chest. If the hero is hit, a similar red patch appears on his 
back, he drops his gun and slides downwards out of view. 

As your relative reputation (score) increases, your draw speed 
improves and you don't need to be quite as accurate to hit. So, at 
first, both heroes should back down if challenged by other people 
- particularly gunfighters - but by the end of the game both Pat and 
Billy can realistically challenge anyone in the territory. 

This also means that victory in their final duel is more likely to 
go to whichever hero has done better in the preceding game. 

BACKGROUND: Standard desert scene, outside town  

CONTROLS:   Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer a gunsight cursor 
            FIRE shoots your gun 

SOUNDS:     Gunshot, ricochet for miss, squawk for hit 

ANIMATIONS: Bell, both fighters draw, dead enemy falls backwards, 
            wounded hero scrolls downwards. 


                     SHOOTOUT (Billy or Pat) 

A shootout game is needed in several situations: either hero can be 
randomly ambushed in the country, or in the street of a town 
controlled by the opposition; Pat Garrett can lead a posse against 
an outlaw gang; or Billy can attack an enemy ranch; or Billy's gang 
of Regulators may run into deputies on guard duty - with or without 
Pat. So this game has several scenes. 

If the hero is ambushed in the country, he will sometimes be called 
upon to surrender by a gunslinger in the foreground (but on the other 
side of the foreground cover. If his offer is refused, the gunslinger 
draws and fires before scrolling downwards off the screen (i.e falling 
to the ground). The game continues as normal. 

If the hero is ambushed in the street, the game is introduced by a 
gunshot, and him shown leaping for cover. When the fighting starts, 
it is against the same street background, with foreground cover added. 

In the foreground is the upper torso of Pat or Billy, crouched in 
cover. The joystick moves a cross-hairs cursor; press fire to shoot, 
hold down fire and move the joystick up or down to rise or duck. 
The aim is to shoot all the opposition before being hit three times 
(though the hat, left and right shoulders - in that order). 

Backgrounds represent town streets, an isolated ranch, and a hillside 
with scattered rocks, among which the enemy opposition lurk and fire. 
You try to shoot them as they bob up to shoot. If you are winning, 
the last few fighters turn and run. 

If both Billy and Pat are present, they effectively play separate 
games from opposite views; the winner is whoever wins first. 


BACKGROUNDS: The backgrounds are in pairs, showing the same place 
             from the points of view of attackers and defenders. 
             They are: 2 street scenes, ranch, wilderness. The 
             same backgrounds are used as when you visit the same 
             places peacefully. 

CONTROLS:    Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer a gunsight cursor.  
             FIRE shoots your gun. 
             If FIRE is held down, controls up/down act as rise/duck. 
          
SOUNDS:      Gunshot, ricochet, squawk for hit 

ANIMATIONS:  Enemies bob up and fire from behind cover. If shot, they 
             sprawl theatrically. 
             Bullets ricochet dustily from your cover. 
             The scenery is gradually riddled with bullet holes. 
             Water and grain containers leak when holed. 
             Scenery animation from the background. 


                  CATTLE RUSTLING (Billy only) 

When Billy clicks on some cows to steal them, while the map is still 
on screen he is asked to click on the destination he wants to drive 
them to. The distance determines how far Billy must drive the cattle 
in the time of this game, and the destination determines the price. 
(Stolen stock are worth almost nothing at most places, slightly more 
at Santa Fe, and the full price at El Paso across the Texas border.) 

The game starts by loading a map-style background, showing terrain 
(though no attempt is made to make this accurately correspond to the 
Lincoln County map). 

Billy and two of his gang enter from the left, all riding horses and 
seen from above. You only control one rider at once - the others carry 
on in a straight line, only turning if blocked - and you switch 
control to the next rider by pressing fire. The controlled rider 
can be turned and moved in the 8 compass directions. 

A herd of cows start at the right, and try to run from Billy's 
horsemen. You have to herd them left, across perhaps six varied 
screens of scrolling desert landscape, to "El Paso" in Mexico to 
sell them. There are occasional random distractions to scare the 
cows, such as rattlesnakes. 

If Billy is too slow, a posse of Brady men catch up from the left. 
If they get close enough before Billy reaches the state line, they 
recapture their animals, and Billy has to fight a "shootout". 

BACKGROUND: Top-down, map-style landscape, to a scale which makes 
            horses and cows about 30 pixels long. 

CONTROLS:   Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer the current rider 
            (the only one shown wearing a hat). Forward/backwards 
            start/stop the horse, and left/right turn 45 degrees 
            in the corresponding direction. 

            FIRE changes control to the next rider. Uncontrolled 
            riders move straight ahead, unless they are blocked. 
          
SOUNDS:     Mooing, snake rattle, "Yee Ha!". 

ANIMATIONS: Tails swish. Cows occasionally snatch a mouthful of grass. 
            Riders occasionally twirl lassos. 


                       TRACKING (Pat only) 

The display is that used for "Cattle Rustling", but with many more 
obstructions (rocks and ravines) and lots of faint meandering trails. 
The effect is a maze of tracks, which Pat must follow to reach the 
gang that he is leading a posse after (i.e one that recently 
committed a robbery). 

Pat follows the tracks of an outlaw gang and occasionally dismounts 
to check that he is going the right way. Given enough time, he would 
always be successful, but this game is played against the clock 
(because a storm will soon erase the evidence) and so Pat does not 
have the chance to check on everything. 

Press "fire" to dismount, examine the trail and remount; taking some 
time. There are occasional clues beside tracks, e.g dropped coins or 
notes, scraps of Cowboy/Indian clothing, or fire ashes. 

The game adds extra clues when Pat tracks his first outlaw gang, to 
provide an easy introduction to this game. 

Some gangs are much harder to find than others (there are less clues 
and the trail is longer). Billy's hideout, in particular, is almost 
impossible to find. But, if Pat has enough money, he can hire a better 
tracker who can see more relevant clues (so more are added to the 
map) and waste less effort (so the time limit is extended). A tracker 
costs $100-$500 and his figure replaces Pat's during this game. 

BACKGROUND:  Top-down, map-style landscape (as Cattle Rustling). The 
             scale makes horses about 30 pixels long. 

CONTROLS:    Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer Pat (or the tracker 
             who Pat has hired to lead the posse). Forward/backwards 
             start/stop his horse, and left/right turn 45 degrees 
             in the corresponding direction. 

             Press FIRE to briefly dismount and inspect evidence on 
             the ground. The analysis appears in a temporary window. 
          
SOUNDS:      Mooing, snake rattle. 

ANIMATIONS:  As "Cattle Rustling", Dismount/crouch/peer/remount. 


                     AMBUSH/GETAWAY (Billy) 

This happens in town and is seen from above (c.f Cattle Rustling and 
Tracking). The map-style backgrounds correspond to each town. If Billy 
robs a bank guarded by some of Pat's deputies, he and his gang are 
attacked as they ride away. Billy's objective is then to take the 
quickest way out of town, away from the melee. 

Billy's horse gallops in the direction of his joystick, he shoots when 
FIRE is pressed, and pressing FIRE and moving the joystick together 
make him twist in the saddle and in future fire to one side. Meanwhile, 
Billy's gang follow him. 

If Pat is present, he can position his men before the battle, by 
steering a cursor over the town streets and roofs and pressing FIRE to 
place first a barricade, then Pat himself, and then each of his men - 
but he cannot put anyone near the bank without alerting the robbers. 
People are harder to hit if placed on roofs or in partial cover. 

Pat's deputies remain fixed in place when the action starts - they 
just fire - but Pat himself is moved, on foot, in the same way as 
Billy is on horseback. 

BACKGROUND:  Top-down, map-style landscape of the town. No detail of 
             building fronts is shown - just their roofs. The scale 
             makes people small and horses about 30 pixels long. 

CONTROLS(A): Pat uses joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer a cursor about 
             the screen - the cursor graphic is a larger version of 
             whatever is to be positioned next. 

             Press FIRE to drop the current object. When the final 
             object (the last deputy) is dropped, phase B starts. 

CONTROLS(B): Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer Billy on horseback, 
             or Pat on foot). Forward/backwards start/stop him, and 
             left/right turn 45 degrees in the corresponding 
             direction. Press FIRE to shoot forwards. 

             When FIRE is held down and the joystick (etc) moved 
             right or left, your direction of fire is turned in steps 
             of 45 degrees, relative to your direction of facing. 

SOUNDS:      Gunfire, ricochet, squawk for hit, "Get 'em, boys!"   

ANIMATIONS:  Shot outlaws on horseback fall backwards, their horses 
             continuing, and lie on the ground. Deputies on roofs 
             slide over the edge and fall. Casualties then lie where 
             they fell until the game is over. 


             MOVING AROUND TOWN (Billy or Pat) 

This is done on foot or horseback, through 3D scenery, in much the 
same way as in Sierra Online games. People are big, at 60-pixels tall, 
and horses are even bigger. 

When you walk up to someone, or into a small shop, or to a visually 
interesting place, the scene changes to a large "first person" 
picture and a multiple-choice menu. E.g on entering the telegraph 
office, you get a head-and-shoulders picture of the clerk. 

Information can be got from the local newspaper, at the printer's: 
each front page is shown, made up from graphic text about the 
latest exploits of our heroes, items about robbery targets, and 
humorous tales of frontier life. There are reward posters at the 
local jail, with pictures of local outlaws. And buying drinks in the 
saloon can get information and/or offers to join in planned crimes. 

BACKGROUNDS: There are 6 unique towns, each with 2-8 non-scrolling 
             street, pictures (built up from identikit shop fronts etc). 
             The only buildings where you walk about indoors are the 
             bars, all slightly different; most of which have only a 
             single room, but one in Santa Fe has a second screen with 
             dancing girls. 
             Enter any other building, and you see a "first person" 
             picture of the shopkeeper (or equivalent) in a room. 
          
CONTROLS:    Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer the hero, as he walks 
             or rides about. (The joystick has to be kept pushed to 
             keep walking, but with mouse or keyboard you continue 
             walking until you select stop or another direction). 
             Bump into someone to talk to them. 
             FIRE does nothing. 

SOUNDS:      Tune which the pianist plays as the girls dance. 

ANIMATIONS:  Walking, riding and too many background animations to 
             mention. 


                  TRAIN ROBBERY (Billy or Pat) 

A parallax-scrolling game seen from the side. A huge (full-screen 
height) train steams past Billy, who then springs from hiding and 
runs to catch it up. Push the joystick sideways to control his speed, 
and push fire to jump over cacti etc. When Billy reaches a ladder 
down the side of one carriage, raise the joystick to climb and then 
run forwards, pressing fire to jump from carriage to carriage. 

If Billy reaches the locomotive, a graphic sequence shows him drawing 
his gun, the engineer braking and the gang escaping with the loot. 
But if Billy is too slow, the train reaches a wooden viaduct above a 
ravine; he is knocked off and the robbery fails. 

Pat gets the opportunity to play this game when he happens upon a 
runaway train. He saves the train, rather than robbing it. 

BACKGROUND: Side-on, parallax-scrolling desert landscape, with a 
            very large animated railway train in front. The train 
            is 6 screens long and people are about 60 pixels tall. 

CONTROLS:   Joystick/mouse/cursor keys. Left makes Billy run faster 
            than the train; right makes him run slower. Up makes him 
            climb up the ladder to the train roof, and down would 
            make him climb down. 
            FIRE jumps Billy over cacti, or between carriages. 

SOUNDS:     Wheels on track, bell, whistle.  

ANIMATIONS: Wheels rotate, pistons and connecting rods move, driver 
            and assistant shovel coal etc in the cab, bell rings, 
            whistle sounds, scenery scrolls past, vulture flaps on 
            telegraph post, window opens at end - showing the driver 
            surrendering at gunpoint, followed by a hand pulling the 
            brake lever. 

                  BANK ROBBERY (Billy only) 

Billy and the gang crouch in front of a safe, beside a pile of sticks 
of dynamite. Click on the sticks to put them under the safe, one at a 
time. Then click on the fuse to light it. After the explosion, the 
safe is either unharmed, or opened, or else converted to a snowstorm 
of dollar bills, depending on whether you used the right amount of 
explosive. (The right amount is one stick for every hinge and lock on 
the safe). 

BACKGROUND: Animated scene of Billy and his gang, crouched around a 
            safe in the bank. There are about ten alternative safes. 
            On the left is an oval window, showing the bank manager 
            working to free himself (he acts as a timer). 

CONTROLS:   Joystick/mouse/cursor keys move a hand cursor in the 
            usual way. When the hand is carrying a stick of 
            dynamite, press FIRE to drop it. When the empty hand 
            is over a stick of dynamite, press FIRE to take it. 
            Click on the plunger at the end of the fuse to 
            trigger the explosion. 

SOUNDS:     Sizzle of burning fuse. Explosion. Shouts of "Help" if 
            the bank manager gets free in time. 

ANIMATIONS: Bank clerk saws at bonds to get free. Spark moves 
            along fuse. Screen replaced by just safe. Explosion. 
            Open safe, with whisp of smoke. Snowstorm of bills. 


                   CARDS (Billy or Pat) 

Billy was an expert gambler. A small round table, surrounded by the 
players, is seen from diagonally above, with cards and coins on top. 
The scene is lit centrally, with deep shadows. 

Pontoon is played by by clicking on a menu, and can earn modest 
amounts of money, pass the time (e.g while Billy waits for his gang 
to spend their loot), or lead other people into giving you help 
(e.g to get their money back). It may lead to a duel. 

BACKGROUND: Card table and three card players, seen from a "first 
            person" view. The fourth player is you. 

CONTROLS:   Joystick/mouse/cursor keys steer a hand cursor 

SOUNDS:     

ANIMATIONS: Opposite player sweeps an arm across table to collect the 
            cards, shuffles them by cutting the pack and merging the 
            two halves, and flicks the cards onto the table to deal. 


                BAR ROOM BRAWL (Billy or Pat). 

Each town has at least one saloon, which you walk through in 3D, 
Sierra-style (with 60-pixel tall people). They are good sources of 
information, but there is always the danger that a fight may break 
out. Once it has, you can grab nearby objects (e.g a chair or bottle) 
by pressing fire. 

If a hostile cowboy gets close, a window opens showing enlarged 
figures of Pat or Billy and his opponent, from the waist up. 
Controls let you: hit your opponent on the head with whatever's 
carried, punch to the jaw, punch to the stomach, or parry. The 
violence is stylized; e.g a chair will splinter when it hits 
someone's head. When your opponent is defeated, the window closes 
and the brawl continues - perhaps with the defeated cowboy falling 
through a window, door or balcony railings nearby - until someone 
else challenges you. 

BACKGROUND: Usual bar room, with occasional overlaid oval window 

CONTROLS:   Joystick/mouse/cursor keys walk you about as usual, and 
            FIRE picks up any nearby chair or bottle. 

            When fighting, the joystick (etc) operates as follows, 
            with brackets for the effect of pressing FIRE. If you 
            are holding a weapon, the High Punch swings it down 
            towards your opponent's head: 

            Sway back (High Block)\(High Block)/Forwards (High Punch) 
            Sway back (Block)     -  (Block)   -     Forwards (Punch) 
            Sway back (Low Block) /(Low Block) \  Forwards (Low Blow)

SOUNDS:     Thwack of fist on flesh, "Oof!", Crunch of breaking chair, 
            sound of breaking glass. 

ANIMATIONS: lots in the background scene. In the foreground window, 
            characters temporarily over-react to blows - screwing up 
            eyes and collapsing neck when hit on the head, head thrown 
            back by punch on jaw, body doubled over by blow to stomach. 
            The idea is for a cartoon-style of violence. 


                      ANIMATED PICTURES

In addition to the pictures directly involved in games, there are 
about 20 animated scenes to help tell the story. The first category 
have people that you can get information from; the people are built 
up photo-fit fashion, so that e.g all clerks look different...
* Newspaper Office + Reporter in visor; 
* Telegraph Office + Clerk; 
* General Store + Shopkeeper; 
* Prospector (Old Timer) panning for gold; 
* Covered Wagon Train + Leader; 
* Indian Village, where you smoke and talk with the Chief; 
* US Cavalry Fort + Soldier; 
* Bordello Bedroom + Bimbo (both Pat and Billy love the same girl); 
* Ranch Bedroom + Girl, nursing you back to health; 
* Ranch + Rancher. There are two alternative ranch styles, a large 
  one (also used for the shootout game) and a Mexican smallholding 
  with no wind pump and just one of the buildings. In front is a 
  Mexican Peasant, Old Timer or Widow Woman; 
* Bank + Manager. 

And others are there to tell the story of the game... 
* Wanted Posters on Wall; 
* Copy of Local Paper, with information; 
* The Regulators, Billy's Gang, in the desert; 
* Pat's posse ditto; 
* Campfire in the Wilderness; 
* Jailbreak. Billy's fellow outlaws use dynamite to blast a hole 
  in the cell wall and, after a shootout game, he rides away; 
* Player Win (Desert Sunset + Elegaic text);  
* Player Loss (lonely graveyard);  
* Title sequence (Finale of Lincoln County war). 

                         APPENDIX 1: TURNS

There are no definite "turns" but, so that winning doesn't simply 
become a matter of joystick waggling (or key pressing) as fast as is 
humanly possible, delays are introduced: 

Billy normally wanders about by himself, but if he opts to rob a 
bank, for example, the game automatically takes him back to his 
hideout where he collects his gang before returning to commit the 
robbery. (This is shown in full the first few times it happens, 
but after this is just mentioned in a text message, to save time). 
Unfortunately for Billy, his gang won't go out on another robbery 
until they have spent the proceeds of the last one. 

Pat is on a budget and gets money at intervals, but his deputies 
insist on bonus payments before they will e.g track down outlaws. 

The gang/deputies also refuse to cooperate if they were badly shot 
up recently, unless the proposed target is a tempting one, or the 
bonus payments very large. But their caution wears off eventually. 

This feature is especially relevant to the two-player game, and is 
minimized when only one person is playing. 


                        APPENDIX 2: CONTROL  

"Billy the Kid" does not need a rigid menu structure. Instead, 
decisions are either made by context or by one-off menus on individual 
screens. For example, if Billy is walking along Main Street and goes 
to his tethered horse, he automatically mounts and leaves town. If 
instead he walks through into the Telegraph Office, a picture of the 
clerk is displayed, with menu options including to e.g offer a bribe 
for information. 


                        APPENDIX 3: TIME 

It is my impression, having done a lot of research, that the settlers 
of the American West had, to coin a phrase, little time for Time. 

Billy The Kid, in particular, seems to have made few long term plans 
after Tunstall's death. When he had money, he spent it. When he was 
broke, he stole cows or horses from whoever he considered an enemy. 

It is important that the game reflects Billy's attitude; day and night 
are ignored, and there is no intrusive clock or calendar. Nor is there 
much attempt at "realistic" travel times. 

Days pass at about 1 minute per game day, and the date is shown on the 
heading of newspapers, but players need not worry much about it.  

(One earlier design attempt of mine was a turn-based game with a very 
precise notion of time. This resulted in e.g Billy constantly having 
to calculate travel times, and to look far into the future to check 
that he could not quite be intercepted by Pat Garrett - which was 
completely unrealistic and rather boring. Avalon Hill's board game, 
"The Legend of Robin Hood", illustrates the same mistake.)

Billy is only really affected by time in connection with... 
* Robbery opportunities. The amount of e.g money in a bank, varies 
  from time-to-time, and by talking to people Billy may learn when 
  a gold shipment is expected. To make life as easy as possible for 
  the Billy player, one of the other outlaws will keep track of all 
  such known (or rumoured) crime opportunities, and remind Billy 
  when the time comes. 
* Hotels. If Billy just wants to let time go by quickly, e.g until 
  the date of a good opportunity for robbery, he just asks a barman 
  for a room until then. In the one-player game, the intervening 
  time passes instantly.  
  
Sheriff Pat Garrett is also reminded of robbery opportunities in the 
same way as Billy (but by a deputy, who also reports robberies that 
take place), and can stay in hotels if he wishes. In addition.. 
* Pat gets a regular monthly budget to spend on law enforcement. 
* Pat can stay in any Sheriff Office, which works in the same way as 
  staying at a hotel, but is free. 

                         APPENDIX 4: MONEY 

It may seem a strange thing to say about someone who committed a 
great many robberies, but Billy did not care very much about money 
either. His attitude seems to have been, "easy come, easy go". 

Billy gets money from the proceeds of robberies, and Pat gets both a 
regular budget and rewards for tracking down gangs. Neither of them 
need any money at all for everyday life (except for playing cards). 

Billy has no real use for money. Pat in contrast, although his income 
is much higher as he controls the County law-enforcement budget, needs 
as much money as possible to pay deputies and trackers. 

If a hero does have money, some additional options are added to the 
command menus where appropriate. These are: 
* "buy drinks on the house" at a bar ($5), 
* "go upstairs with a girl" at a bar ($5), 
* "offer a bribe" when asking questions (program picks $1-$5), 
* "give some money" when talking to poor people ($20). 
(When a menu is displayed which allows a hero to spend money, his 
current wealth is shown too.) 

Other costs are as follows: 
* Deputy, per month ............. $20 
* posse bonus, per deputy ...... $5 
* Tracker to head posse ........ $100-$500 (depending on skill)
* All Billy's money is confiscated if he is jailed 

Typical income is follows: 
* Billy gets for stolen animal .. $5 (e.g for each of 20 cows) 
* Billy's share of robbery ...... $5-$100 
* Pat's budget, per month ....... $200
* Reward for individual ......... $50 
* Reward for "captured" gang .... $200-$500 

Wealth has no effect on score, except indirectly: 
* helping the poor increases the reputation of either hero; 
* buying drinks does too; 
* stealing money increases Billy's score - but it's the theft, 
  rather than the ownership of the money, which matters. 

                         APPENDIX 5: MUSIC 

"Billy the Kid" has digitised sound effects, and about 20-30 minutes 
of MIDI music (made up from short themes to accompany the action). 
The music is very good indeed on Amigas, and IBM PCs with the major 
sound boards (Roland, Sound Blaster, AdLib), and is quite good on STs. 
