










Dear Dicon, 

           Thanks for the two disks of Billy Intro graphics. I think 
we must by now have the complete set - though I confess that I 
currently find it impossible to know what goes with what. I have not 
seen any hoe-down dancers, for example. 

Would it be possible to send a complete set of "final" components 
of all the pictures, grouped so that each picture is within a single 
folder? The filenames, though descriptive, are no real help with this. 

Also there should be a "show" version of every picture (again, I have 
not seen one for the hoe-down), or two for scrolling pictures. 

Detailed comments: 

1/3. Good. 
2. Good. Richard can animate the blacksmith here. 
4. Good.  
5. Good. But where are the people? I also can't (I think) find any 
   idea of how the fire should look, and there's no show picture. 
6. OK. 
7. Great artwork, but why did you reverse the people in the picture 
   and put Pat Garrett in the foreground, talking, with Billy listening 
   to him? It's TUNSTALL who is offering Billy a job. (See design). 
   This really matters for the intro. How much work would it be to 
   swap around Garrett and Tunstall? Or is another change possible? 
   I want Tunstall to be able to flip a "lucky silver dollar" to Billy 
   as an advance on wages in this picture - the coin becomes a motif. 
8. Good, I think. There's no "show" version for the main part of 8 
   so I really have no idea what you intend. 
9. Good. But: 
   a) The design of the wagon seat means Tunstall cannot collapse back 
      as drawn (it looks almost as high as his shoulders). 
   b) The branch is NOT spindly: it has no gaps and occupies 70 cells 
      (or about 30% of the screen). Please add gaps and halve the 
      number of cells occupied.
   c) For the branch scrolling to make sense, we cannot have static 
      foreground scenery. The bush on the left will have to go. 
   d) Furthermore, the way you have drawn "8" and "9" links them so 
      tightly together that you know - as an observer - that the killer 
      has only walked a yard or two east between the two. I had been 
      envisaging him "circling round". This means, among other things, 
      that the branch has to tie in with the tree in "8". Alter the tree 
      a bit in "8". 
   e) The killer's guns are so high, they're hidden by his hat. 
10. Good people/wheels/background. Please lose Billy's gun; he is not 
    the killer. Please also amend the wagon, which still looks like a 
    railway sleeper floating above the wheels. Please make the 
    "suspension" more obvious, and do something to make the body of 
    the wagon look like what it is (I thought the seat would help, 
    but you can't really see it). Add fittings? the far side? 

