
"BILLY THE KID" - OUTLINE DESIGN. Copyright (C) 1990 Level 9 

Billy the Kid was said to have been born Henry McCarty in New York, 
around 1859. His widowed mother moved West, remarried a miner and 
raised her two boys in New Mexico. She died when Billy was 15 and 
he was soon thrown in prison for theft, but made the first of many 
jailbreaks and fled to Arizona. He was soon jailed again, for 
killing a man who was rude to him, but escaped and returned to 
New Mexico where he called himself William Bonney. 

Billy led the cowhands of the Tunstall (losing) faction in the 
"Lincoln County War" between rival cattle barons, in which many 
men were murdered. He escaped from the final showdown, when 
trapped by so-called sheriff George Peppin's deputies in burning 
buildings in Lincoln, by crossing the Ruidoso River at night. 

Billy found himself the leader of an outlaw gang and turned to 
cattle rustling and robbery - at least partly to gain revenge for 
Tunstall's death. A new governer promised amnesty and Billy 
allowed himself to be arrested. But his pardon never came, so 
Billy escaped again from jail. 

Pat Garrett was appointed sheriff of Lincoln County (the southeast 
quarter of New Mexico), with the mandate of capturing Billy. Pat 
managed this, and Billy was sentenced to hang for murder, but 
killed two deputies and escaped. Garrett caught up with Billy 
again on the night of July 14 1881 and killed him. 

Since Billy's death, his tale has been retold and embellished in a 
great many books and films. He is now a worldwide hero in the Robin 
Hood mould, and it is this mythic figure that the game features. 


                             THE GAME 

"Billy the Kid" is a classic revenge Western. Billy is the driven 
vigilante, dedicated to ruining the rich men who killed his friend. 
And Pat Garrett is the incorruptible sheriff, determined to enforce 
the law, even if his own friends suffer (Billy and Pat were friends 
in happier times).

The game is for 16-bit machines - Amiga, IBM PCs (all common graphic
modes) and STs - and is compressed down to about 1.5M on disk. 

It is for 1 player (who chooses to be either Billy or Pat), or for 2 
people, playing simultaneously on two linked computers.  
* As Billy, you want to gain revenge on the rich men who killed 
  your friends, by robbing them of as much as possible. Your score 
  is the reward money for you "dead or alive". You should seek out 
  the most tempting targets for crime, commit robberies, avoid 
  towns where things get too hot, and spend your money in saloons 
  and bordellos in order to buy information.  
* As Pat Garrett, you must keep track of Billy by the reports of 
  his crimes, track him down and arrest him whenever possible, and 
  bring law to the West by defeating outlaw gangs. In addition, 
  Pat controls the law & order budget and can visit any Sheriff's 
  office - there to hire or fire deputies and allocate them to towns, 
  to guard particular robbery targets, or to search for information, 
  with the aim of making Billy's life harder. Pat's score is his 
  popularity, as measured by newspaper opinion surveys. 


GAME MAP. "Billy the Kid" comprises an overall strategy game, with 
arcade games for individual incidents. 

The strategy game uses a scrolling map of Lincoln County, 2 screens 
in each direction, with about six cartoon-style towns, several 
ranches, rivers, mountains and so on. If it looks good, there will 
be spot animations. Only places that you know about are shown, so 
e.g outlaw hideouts are added if you learn about them. 

You move a "binoculars" cursor across the map and see details of the 
place at the current cursor location in a larger "binoculars" window 
(which looks a bit like an 8 on its side and overlays the map, at 
the corner furthest from the cursor). Details include a larger picture 
of the place, its name and e.g the name of any gang based there. 

Press fire to move to the current cursor (a tiny animation of Pat or 
Billy rides across the map) and on arrival the map is replaced by 
an appropriate close-up or game. On leaving, you return to the map. 


STRATEGY OVERVIEW. Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid both mix information 
gathering (visiting places and people, to learn the whereabouts of 
outlaws and opportunities for crime), with committing or preventing 
crimes respectively. 

When the game starts, the country is lawless: there is a group of 
outlaws near every town and Billy can rob almost at will. But every 
time Pat Garrett defeats an outlaw gang, he brings law to its town 
and Billy has trouble organising robberies there. Each success also 
increases Pat's budget. There will be some roaming outlaws in the 
wilderness, for Billy to recruit and use to undo Pat's work in lawful 
towns, but basically Pat steadily reduces Billy's opportunities for 
crime - setting a limit on his score and increasing the chance that 
he will be tracked down. 

Neither Billy the Kid, nor Pat Garrett can die, except in a final 
showdown duel between them. If defeated in combat before this, they 
are merely wounded and nursed back to health (and, in Billy's case, 
may be captured and have to escape from jail). 

The game ends with a climactic duel, when: 
* Billy has killed or bancrupted all his enemies, or 
* Billy has to escape from jail a fifth time, or 
* Pat Garrett has defeated all the outlaw gangs, or 
* the time limit is up. 
The loser of this duel is presumed dead, but his body is removed by 
friends before this can be confirmed, allowing for a sequel. The 
winner of the duel survives of course, and gets a score bonus, and 
the overall game is won by whoever has the highest reputation. 

(There is no reason why the two heroes should not meet earlier, but 
this is not allowed to trigger the duel prematurely. If Billy meets 
Pat on the main street of Santa Fe, for example, all that results is 
one of those enigmatic Western conversations where they discuss old 
times and advise each other to leave town. Interactions are limited 
to circumstances when the two heroes find each other on opposing 
sides of an arcade game - e.g if Pat and a group of deputies are 
guarding a bank which Billy attacks, or if both heroes get caught up 
in the same bar-room brawl). 

Turns. There are no definite "turns" but, so that winning doesn't 
simply become a matter of typing (or joystick waggling) as fast as 
is humanly possible, delays are introduced: Billy's gang won't go 
out on robberies until they have spent the proceeds of the last 
one, and Pat is on a budget and gets money at intervals. This feature 
is especially relevant to the two-player game. 

                          ARCADE GAMES 

Player decisions, and random events, often trigger arcade games... 

QUICK DRAW DUEL (Billy or Pat). This happens when e.g you challenge 
a cheat at cards, or between the two heroes at the end. 

You stand in the foreground, facing your opponent in the distance. 
A bell rings, allowing both to draw their guns and fire, their 
relative maximum speeds depending on their current reputations. 

Press fire to start the draw, steer the sights onto your opponent, 
and press fire again to shoot. If you miss, the recoil will jerk 
the gun slightly off target, but against easy opponents it may be 
possible to aim and shoot again before the opponent fires. The 
winner is whoever hits first. 


SHOOTOUT (Billy or Pat). A shootout game is needed in several 
situations: either hero can be randomly ambushed in the country, or 
in the street of a town controlled by the opposition; Pat Garrett 
can lead a possee against an outlaw gang; or Billy can attack an 
enemy ranch; or Billy's gang may run into deputies on guard duty 
- with or without Pat. So this game has several scenes. 

In the foreground is the upper torso of Pat or Billy, crouched in 
cover. The joystick moves a cross-hairs cursor; press fire to shoot, 
hold down fire and move the joystick up or down to rise or duck. 
The aim is to shoot all the opposition before being hit three times 
(though the hat, left and right shoulders respectively). 

Backgrounds represent town streets, an isolated farm, and a hillside 
with scattered rocks, among which the enemy opposition lurk and fire. 
You try to shoot them as they bob up to shoot. If you are winning, 
the last few fighters turn and run. 

Sound effects will include gunshots and ricochets. (As in films, 
a lot of bullets will bounce off the cover next to Pat or Billy.)
A nice graphical touch is that the scenery is gradually riddled 
with bullet holes. 

If both Billy and Pat are present, they effectively play seperate 
games from opposite views; the winner is whoever wins first. 


MOVING AROUND TOWN (Billy or Pat). This is done on foot or horseback, 
through 3D scenery, in much the same way as in Sierra Online games. 
People are 60-pixels high, and horses even bigger. 

When you walk up to someone, or into a small shop, or to a visually 
interesting place, the scene changes to a large picture and 
multiple-choice options. E.g on entering the telegraph office, 
you get a head-and-shoulders picture of the clerk. 

Information can be got from the local newspaper, at the printer's: 
each front page is shown, made up from graphic text about the 
latest exploits of our heroes, items about robbery targets, and 
humorous tales of frontier life. There are reward posters at the 
local jail, with pictures of local outlaws. And buying drinks in the 
saloon can get information and/or offers to join in planned crimes. 


CATTLE RUSTLING (Billy only). Billy and two of his gang enter from 
the left, all riding horses and seen from above. You only control 
one rider at once - the others carry on in a straight line, only 
turning if blocked - and you switch control to the next rider by 
pressing fire. The controlled rider follows the cursor. 

A herd of cows start at the right, and try to run from Billy's 
horsemen. You have to herd them left, across perhaps six varied 
screens of scrolling desert landscape, to "El Paso" in Mexico to 
sell them. There are occasional random distractions to scare the 
cows, such as rattlesnakes or a mountain lion. 

If Billy is too slow, a possee of Brady men catch up from the right. 
If they get close enough before Billy reaches the Texas border, they 
recapture their animals, and Billy has to fight a "shootout". 


TRACKING (Pat only). The display is that used for "Cattle Rustling", 
but with many more obstructions (rocks and ravines) and lots of faint 
meandering trails. The effect is a maze of tracks, which Pat must 
follow to reach the gang that he is leading a possee after (i.e one 
that recently committed a robbery). 

Pat follows the tracks of an outlaw gang and occasionally dismounts 
to check that he is going the right way. Given enough time, he would 
always be successful, but this game is played against the clock 
(because a storm will soon erase the evidence) and so Pat does not 
have the chance to check on everything. 

Press "fire" to dismount, examine the trail and remount; taking 
some time. There are occasional clues beside tracks, e.g dropped 
coins or notes, scraps of Cowboy/Indian clothing, or fire ashes. 


AMBUSH/GETAWAY (Billy or Pat). This happens in town and is seen from 
above (cf Cattle Rustling and Tracking). If Billy robs a bank, guarded 
by some of Pat's deputies, he and his gang are attacked as they ride 
away. Billy's objective is then to take the quickest way out of town, 
away from the melee. 

Billy's horse gallops in the direction of his joystick, he shoots when 
FIRE is pressed, and pressing FIRE and moving the joystick together 
make him twist in the saddle and in future fire to one side. Meanwhile, 
Billy's gang follow him. 

If Pat is present, he can position his men before the battle, by 
steering a cursor over the town streets and roofs and pressing FIRE to 
place first a barricade, then Pat himself, and then each of his men - 
but he cannot put anyone near the bank without alerting the robbers. 
People are harder to hit if placed on roofs or in partial cover. 

Pat's deputies remain fixed in place when the action starts - they 
just fire - but Pat himself is moved, on foot, in the same way as 
Billy is on horseback. 


TRAIN ROBBERY (Billy or Pat). A parallax-scrolling game seen from the 
side. A huge (full-screen height) train steams past Billy, who then 
springs from hiding and runs to catch it up. Push the joystick 
sideways to control his speed, and push fire to jump over cacti etc. 
When Billy reaches a ladder down the side of one carriage, raise the 
joystick to climb and then run forwards, pressing fire to jump from 
carriage to carriage. 

If Billy reaches the locomotive, a graphic sequence shows him drawing 
his gun, the engineer braking and the gang escaping with the loot. 
But if Billy is too slow, the train reaches a wooden viaduct above a 
ravine; he is knocked off and the robbery fails. 

Pat gets the opportunity to play this game when he happens upon a 
runaway train. There is a different ending. 


BANK ROBBERY (Billy only). Billy and the gang crouch in front of a 
safe, beside a pile of sticks of dynamite. Click on the sticks to 
put them under the safe, one at a time. Then click on the fuse to 
light it. After the explosion, the safe is either unharmed, or 
opened, or else converted to a snowstorm of dollar bills, depending 
on whether you used the right amount of explosive. (The right amount 
is one stick for every hinge and lock on the safe). 


CARDS (Billy or Pat). Billy was an expert gambler. A small round 
table, surrounded by the players, is seen from diagonally above, 
with cards and coins on top. 

Pontoon is played by by clicking on a menu, and can earn modest 
amounts of money, pass the time (e.g while Billy waits for his gang 
to spend their loot), or lead other people into giving you help 
(e.g to get their money back). It may lead to a duel. 


BAR ROOM BRAWL (Billy or Pat). Each town has at least one saloon, 
which you walk through in 3D, "Grange Murders"-style. They are good 
sources of information, but there is always the danger that a fight 
may break out. Once it has, you can grab nearby objects (e.g a chair 
or bottle) by pressing fire. 

If a hostile cowboy gets close, a window opens showing enlarged 
figures of Pat or Billy and his opponent, from the waist up. 
Controls let you: hit your opponent on the head with whatever's 
carried, punch to the jaw, punch to the stomach, or parry. The 
violence is stylised; e.g a chair will splinter when it hits 
someone's head. When your opponent is defeated, the window closes 
and the brawl continues - perhaps with the defeated cowboy falling 
thouugh a window, door or balcony railings nearby - until someone 
else challenges you. 


                      ANIMATED PICTURES

In addition to the pictures directly involved in games, there are 
about 20 animated scenes to help tell the story. The first category 
have people that you can get information from; the people are built 
up photo-fit fashion, so that e.g all clerks look different...
* Newspaper Office + Reporter in visor; 
* Telegraph Office + Clerk; 
* General Store + Shopkeeper; 
* Prospector (Old Timer) panning for gold; 
* Covered Wagon Train + Leader; 
* Indian Village, where you smoke and talk with the Chief; 
* US Cavalry Fort + Soldier; 
* Bordello Bedroom + Bimbo (both Pat and Billy love the same girl); 
* Ranch Bedroom + Bimbo, nursing you back to health; 
* Ranch + Rancher (Old Timer or Widow Woman); 
* Bank + Manager. 

And others are there to tell the story of the game... 
* Wanted Posters on Wall; 
* Copy of Local Paper, with information; 
* Billy's Gang in the desert; 
* Pat's Possee ditto; 
* Campfire in the Wilderness; 
* Jailbreak. Billy's fellow outlaws use dynamite to blast a hole 
  in the cell wall and, after a shootout game, he rides away; 
* Player Win (Desert Sunset + Elegaic text);  
* Player Loss (lonely graveyard);  
* Title sequence (Finale of Lincoln County war). 


                                MUSIC 

"Billy the Kid" has digitised sound effects, and about 20-30 minutes 
of MIDI music (made up from short themes to accompany the action). 
The music is very good indeed on Amigas, and IBM PCs with the major 
sound boards (Roland, Sound Blaster, AdLib), and is quite good on STs. 
