









  CHAMPION OF THE RAJ CHANGES. Copyright (C) 29 June 90, Level 9 

The meeting between Level 9 and Mirrorsoft on 21 June resulted in 
several suggestions for improvements. The main ones were that the 
game should be sexier, not take itself too seriously, and disguise 
the time taken to load overlays, and that the "swordfight" game 
should not be a "joystick bash". 

Specific changes are as follows: 

1) Narrators. A bearded Holy Man and his beautiful princess 
   granddaughter are added: 
   * In the introduction, the princess helps the hero escape from 
     the Thug dungeon, taking him to meet her grandfather who 
     clarifies the need to unify India and defeat the Thugs. (Scene 
     7 has the princess added, and the original scene 9 is replaced 
     by a close-up of princess and ancient sage in his hermitage). 
   * In the game, either of the narrators (but usually the princess) 
     visits whenever the player needs advice about background events 
     in India. A window opens, with text on one side and the 
     animated narrator on one side. 
   * The Holy Man is used to disguise the time to load sub-games. 
     His face is displayed, initially telling you the instructions 
     for play, and thereafter with one of his many wise sayings to 
     read while the disk whirrs. 
   * The princess adds glamour. She is rescued from the Thugs in the 
     swordfight game, and stars in marriage and bedroom scenes. 

2) Sex is introduced to the game (see later for notes) by means of: 
   * Princess as narrator: scantily-clad and animated. 
   * Miscellaneous Kama Sutra carvings in the background scenery. 
   * Very occasionally (perhaps once per twelve hours) someone who 
     regularly but briefly appears, such as the waiter in the 
     clubroom who walks across the screen, is replaced by a nude girl. 
     The aim is to start rumours about this event, because only a few 
     players will see her. A secret control sequence, to make her 
     appear all the time, could be leaked to the press later. 
   * "Capturing the Palace" has slavegirls added, who run about the 
     place. They are non-combatants and cannot be shot. 
   * "Capturing the Thug Temple" has a lot of nude statues added, 
     and the final "Kali" adversary is topless. 
   * The "Suttee" game is changed so that the Princess is initially 
     held by a group of Thugs. When the second of them goes to fight 
     the hero, she wriggles free but leaves much of her clothing 
     behind and escapes semi-naked, before grabbing e.g a fan and 
     returning to act as a cheerleader. The Thugs ignore her, and 
     she is safe regardless of the hero's fate. 
   * A bedroom scene is added, where the hero has the option to 
     be seduced by a female "slave girl", who then undresses in 
     silhouette. This is an alternative introduction to an 
     "assassination" swordfight.  
   * The "marriage" scenes are delayed and spiced up. 
The aim is for cartoon eroticism (cf "Red", Jane, or St Trinians), 
rather than "digitised" pictures, which work less well on computer, 
and to space out nude scenes throughout the game. 

3) The swordfight game is converted to a more leisurely control 
   mechanism, while looking better and simulating combat more 
   accurately. 
   * By default, the hero and his thug opponent attack and parry 
     each other's blows roughly alternately. So the scene resembles 
     a cartoon battle even if a novice is playing. 
   * Control is by moving a cursor across a 3*3 grid: left-right are 
     attack/stand/retreat, and up-down are high/middle/low blows. 
     Your choice of attack/stand/retreat affects the probability of 
     each parry working (retreating is best, but the hero can only 
     retreat so far) and you press FIRE to replace the next computer- 
     selected blow or parry by your currently chosen blow. Each 
     opponent is more vulnerable to one attack type than the others, 
     and one aim is to learn these weaknesses. 
   * The hero wins if he defeats all the attacking Thugs without 
     suffering too many wounds. 
     
4) Miscellaneous: 
   * I will look again at the less memorable Indian names.  
   * Beaters who get shot are wounded and not killed. 
   * Humour will be added (e.g in background animations). 



                                             Pete Austin 
