Instructions for Time and Magik 
-------------------------------

    If you have not played a Level 9 adventure before, please read 
all these instructions. If you are an experienced Level 9 adventurer, 
skip to the preface and just read that. 

To start the game ("boot it"), see the seperate reference card. 

When the game prints "What now?" or ">", it is waiting for you to 
type a command. (The game also waits when it has more text to print 
than will fit on the screen at one time; read what's displayed and 
press e.g SHIFT or SPACE to continue.)

Time and Magik knows four types of commands: 

* Movement: just type the direction you want to go: NORTH, NORTHEAST, 
  EAST (and the other compass directions), IN, OUT, UP, DOWN or ACROSS. 

* Actions: e.g LOOK, TAKE THE HOURGLASS, DROP IT, LOOK AT THE PICTURE, 
  WIND THE CLOCK, WEAR THE RUCKSACK, or GIVE COIN TO THE INNKEEPER. 

* System commands. EXITS, INVENTORY and SCORE give information; WORDS, 
  PICTURES, BRIEF, VERBOSE, EXITS ON and EXITS OFF control what is 
  output; UNDO; SAVE, RESTORE, RAM SAVE and RAM RESTORE save your 
  position or return to an earlier position, and QUIT stops the game. 
  See the example game, below, for details of these commands. 

* Commands to others. A spell in part 3 lets you control creatures. 
  Type their name, followed by a command: e.g BAT, GO NORTH.            

You can abbreviate commands, e.g SOUTH to S and SOUTHEAST to SE, and 
even type several commands on one line, e.g EAST, TAKE ALL, WEST. 
After typing a command (or commands), press the ENTER or RETURN key. 


Preface
-------

This adventure is a trilogy of key episodes from the struggles of the 
Guardians to protect Time and Magik. The three parts are played as 
separate games.

In part 1, "Lords of Time", the evil Timelords are fighting to change
World History, with the aim of gaining permanent control over Time and 
warp eternity according to their wishes. You must bring together nine 
crucial objects from different times to defeat them. 

Part 2, "Red Moon", tells how the Red Moon Crystal, only remaining 
source of magik power, was lost. And how the Guardians selected a lone 
adventurer to recover it.  

And finally, part 3, "The Price of Magik", recounts the sad tale of 
Myglar who, driven mad by the intensity of magikal radiance from the 
Moon Crystal that he had protected for so long, stole it. His aim was 
a vain attempt to squander its power and live forever. But a magician 
of great skill (who eventually rose to lead the Guardian's) avoided 
Myglar's traps, recovered the crystal and ensured that magik survived 
as long as the need for it.  

Hints for part 1, "Time and Magik":
* You need to enter the clock; 9 time zones can be reached from here. 
* Tackle the time zones in numeric order, most of the time. 
* After each of the first 8 zones, you can always get back to the clock. 
* You score points for each of the 9 ingredients, and for each of the 
  18 treasures collected. There are a few bonusses.  

Hints for part 2, "Red Moon":
* To cast a spell, enter CAST spell-name optional-target 
  e.g CAST ESCAPE or CAST SNOOP NORTH 
* If you must to attack something, wear armour and carry a weapon. 
* You score points for making progress towards regaining the Red Moon 
  Crystal, and fifty bonus points for each of nine treasures collected. 

Hints for part 3, "Price of Magik":
* Tackle the outdoor locations before entering the house. 
* The HYP (hypnosis) spell lets you command one creature at a time. To 
  give an order, enter e.g BAT, TAKE THE FELDSPAR. 
* You score points for learning and using spells, and for reaching a 
  few inaccessible places. 

If you are really stuck, you can get a free set of clue sheets, with 
over 1000 entries, from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, Avon 
BS24 9UR, England. You must enclose the "clue card" from the packaging 
and provide a large, stamped, self-addressed envelope (UK), or four 
International reply coupons (overseas). 


Talking to Time and Magik
------------------------- 

As you have seen, Time and Magik understands a lot of commands. The 
following list is only part of its vocabulary, but it gives an idea 
of what to try: 
              
North, northeast, east (and other compass directions), up, down, in, 
out, across, climb, again, attack, inventory, quit, restore, save, 
RAM save, undo, score, wait, shout, search, examine, blink, look, 
kneel, take, drop, wear, throw, give, fill, empty, open, unlock, 
close, eat, drink, light, press, wave, blow, rub, dig, insert, turn, 
pull, wind, kiss, exits, words, pictures, brief, verbose. 
 
Many words can be abbreviated, e.g "INVENTORY" to "INV". 
       
The following game example is not Time and Magik, but it shows how to 
play. The player's commands are in capitals, after each ">" prompt, 
and any the text in square brackets is a comment. 

> LOOK 
You're standing on the north shore of a marshy island, lost in the 
mists and reed-beds of a great swamp. Frogs croak incessantly. 

> GO NORTH 
You bravely wade into the cool water, sink up to your neck in a tangle 
of weeds and barely manage to struggle back to the island. 

> NORTH 
Some people never learn! You wade into the marsh again, get hopelessly 
tangled in the weeds and sink beneath the waters. The game is over: you 
scored 0 out of 1000. Enter UNDO, RESTART, RESTORE or RAM RESTORE. 

> UNDO  ["Take back move" - available on most micros.]
You're standing on the north shore of a marshy island, lost in the 
mists and reed-beds of a great swamp. Frogs croak incessantly. 

> S  [i.e "SOUTH"] 
You're on the south shore of the marshy island, which looks exactly 
like the north shore. You can see a little rowing boat. 

> EXITS 
Exits lead north and south. 

> LOOK AT THE BOAT. 
Fragile is too good a description for this craft! The only reason for 
it remaining in one piece must be because the woodworm, deep in its 
crumbling timbers, are all holding hands. 

> GET IN BOAT. 
OK. 

> BRIEF, WORDS, EXITS ON
OK. OK. OK.  [Locations will be described briefly, pictures turned off 
and exits reported automatically in future. To reverse these choices, 
you could use VERBOSE, PICTURES and EXITS OFF respectively.]

> S  [i.e "SOUTH"]
You're in a little rowing boat in the middle of the swamp. By paddling 
very carefully, you are able to make slow but steady progress. Exits 
lead north and south. 

> A  [i.e "AGAIN", repeat previous command]
You're in a little rowing boat at a jetty. Exits lead north, west and 
south. You can see a signpost. 

> OUT. EXAMINE SIGNPOST

The boat rocks as you get to your feet, then breaks apart and sinks 
into the depths. 
The letters on the sign are too tarnished to see properly. 

> RUB SIGNPOST AND READ IT
You clean the signpost and it is readable now. 
Apparantly, the west road leads along a causeway to the City of the 
Moon. 

> SCORE
You score 10 out of 1000. 

> RAM SAVE 
OK.  [Having escaped from the swamp, save your position in RAM - i.e 
in the computer's memory - in case you encounter difficulties and want 
to return to this point, using RAM RESTORE. To save to disk or tape, 
use SAVE and RESTORE respectively - see the reference card.] 

> WEST
You are on the east end of a long causeway. Exits lead east and west. 
You can see a wallet.

> TAKE WALLET AND EXAMINE EVERYTHING
The wallet is a tanned fishskin bag. In the wallet are a coin and a card. 
The coin is a golden sovereign. 
The card is printed with, "J. Fisher Esq, The Burrow, Pondside". 

>EXITS OFF  [stop reporting exits]
OK.
You can hear a faint buzzing noise!

> WEST
You are in the middle of the causeway. A swarm of insects appear and 
start circling around you! 

> EXAMINE THE INSECTS AND HIT THEM 
The insects are a kind of virulent mosquito. 
Something bites your neck! 
You flail wildly at the air, but miss everything. 
More insects bite you, then they all fly happily away.  

> WEST 
You are at the west end of the causeway. You can see a pebble. The air 
seems to be getting colder! 

> GET PEBBLE
OK. You seem to have a fever. 

> INVENTORY
You own a pebble and a wallet. You shiver uncontrollably. 

> WEST
You are on the outskirts of the City of the Moon. Unfortunately, the 
fever develops apace and you can barely stay on your feet. 

> RAM RESTORE  [return to the position you saved earlier] 
You're at a jetty. Exits lead north, west and south. You can see a 
signpost. 
 
> SOUTH
You are outside a drug store. Exits lead north and in. 

> IN 
You are in the drug store. You can see a shopkeeper and a bottle of 
plague antidote pills. 
"Good Morning", says the shopkeeper, "Can I help you?" 

> TAKE PILLS
The shopkeeper slaps your hand away. "Naughty!", she scolds, "Antidote 
pills are extremely valuable - one gold Sovereign each!" 

> OUT.N.W.GET WALLET.E.S.IN.GIVE SOVEREIGN TO SHOPKEEPER
[then, armed with the antidote pills, try to pass the insects again...]


Hints 
----- 

1. Draw a map (or a series of maps). Remember that the EXITS command 
   lists the possible paths from each location. 

2. To make life easy for you, the objects that matter in a location 
   are normally listed in a sentence like, "You can see a shopkeeper 
   and a bottle of plague antidote pills". (Some other authors mix in 
   useful objects amidst the background scenery, but Time and Magik 
   avoids this time-wasting trick.) The rest of your surroundings are 
   probably scenery, but by all means do things to them if you like. 

3. Examine all the objects that you see, and take everything that you 
   can. Most objects are useful - either as treasure, or in solving 
   later puzzles. 

4. Remember "UNDO". If you make a mistake and get "killed" or lose a 
   vital object, the UNDO command is available on most versions and 
   takes you back in time - hopefully to before the mistake. On larger 
   micros, you can use UNDO many times in succession to step backwards 
   a long way through the game. 

5. SAVE your place occasionally, so that if you notice a mistake too 
   late to be able to UNDO it, or if the electricity flickers and your 
   computer crashes, you can RESTORE the saved position and continue 
   from there. SAVE puts your position on tape or disk (see the 
   instruction card) and RESTORE can retrieve it later. RAM SAVE is 
   quicker but less secure, as it just saves the position in memory. 

6. Try everything you can think of - even weird or dangerous actions 
   sometimes provide clues, and might be fun. You can always use UNDO 
   (or SAVE followed by RESTORE) to recover if the results are "fatal".  

7. You can word a command in many different ways. For example, if there 
   were an axe and a ball on the ground, you could take the axe by 
   typing any of the following:
   > GET THE AXE 
   > TAKE AXE 
   > GET ALL BUT THE BALL 
   > LOOK AT THE AXE AND TAKE IT
   If Time and Magik doesn't understand your command, try rephrasing it 
   and using synonyms. If Time and Magik still doesn't understand, you 
   are probably trying something that is not important in the game. 

8. If you are really stuck, you can get a free set of clue sheets, with 
   over 1000 entries, from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, 
   Avon BS24 9UR, England. You must enclose the "clue card" from the 
   packaging and provide a large, stamped, self-addressed envelope (UK), 
   or four International reply coupons (overseas). 


Credits
-------

Game designs: Sue Gazzard, David Williamson and Pete Austin.
Game program: Pete Austin, Mike Austin and Simon Aspinall. 
Adventure System: Mike Austin. 
Transport to your Micro: Nick Austin. 
Pictures: Godfrey Dowson and Neil Strudwick. 
  

