










John Norledge                                            27/9/90 
Mirrorsoft 
071 583 3494 

Dear John, 

          Comments on Raj manual (26/9/90). 

1) Line and character spacing. For my taste, I find everything is too 
   close together horizontally and the lines are too far apart 
   vertically. You should also be able to use a slightly increased 
   font size (bearing in mind that this document is going to be reduced 
   from A4 to about A5. 

2) Aspect ratio of pages. I thought "soft-box" packaging was a kind of 
   truncated A5 - i.e squarer than the example manual. 

3) Contents page. This would help readers e.g find the loading 
   instructions for their particular computer. 

4) New page for a new topic. I suggest that you consider starting a new 
   page with the following headings: 
   IBM PC / Atari ST / Amiga / Choice Screen / Headquarters Screen / 
   Running Your Empire / Arcade Games / Elephant Racing / Capturing the 
   Palace / Sword Fights. By preference, multi-page topics should start 
   on a left hand page wherever this can be arranged. 

   It would also be nice to get topics like the introduction onto a 
   single page - rather than 1 1/4 pages. 

   (I know you know about this sort of thing, but it's not been done on 
   the version here). 

5) If you would like some little illustrations for the manual, e.g to 
   fill in any gaps left by "4" or to introduce each sub-game, Dicon 
   (who did the game artwork) is available today and on Friday - and 
   I could get you something by Monday am. He is very good, but I don't
   want to ask him to do anything unless they are likely to be used. 
   Please contact me if you are interested. 

6) Some the original manual has been fairly crudely removed (e.g most 
   of the "Optional Equipment" from the IBM section - which will 
   certainly be of interest to prospective buyers. I took Cinemaware 
   manuals as my guide here. It no longer even mentions the README file, 
   which is vital). I would not complain, save that the sparse line 
   spacing of the manual makes it look as if you are trying to pad out 
   the text to fill a space which is now too large for it. 

7) Specific comments... 

Lose the "Synthesiser" mention for the Atari ST. We are planning this, 
but have not written the code yet and don't want a firm commitment in 
the manual. Details will go in the README file. 

Could you put a box around the book details (page 13)? 

The titles format unfortunately in several cases, see especially the 
successive letters "R EM" at the top of page 15. 

Lose the mention of "When the odds are close...described later)." on 
page 16. 

Please lose the mention of "with Richard Cheek (additional animations)" 
from the credits as he has left Level 9 in unfortunate circumstances. 
The last time we saw him was when I gave him an advance against his 
payment for future work. He did not do very much on the game before 
leaving. (For legal reasons I should add that there are doubtless 
hundreds of other Richard Cheeks against whom we have no complaint.) 

Please add the name of Chris Jenkins' Indian friend to the credits for 
music. I will send another fax when he tells me what it is! 

                       Best wishes, 


                                   Pete Austin 


PS: Please could someone 'phone me about point 5. Many thanks. 
