

  Champion of the Raj Design. Copyright (C) 2 July 90 by Level 9 

1. INTRODUCTION

"Champion of the Raj" is a game in the spirit of "Defender of the 
Crown", set in the early 1800s when India was being united as the 
British Raj. It has: 
* a twelve screen animated introduction;
* a central strategy game (a bit like the classic game "Hamurabi", 
  which combines territorial conquest with economic investment); 
* six arcade games (tiger hunting, elephant racing, army battle, 
capturing the palace, battle in the Thug temple and swordfighting); 
* many animated screens depicting local events; 
* digitised sound effects and a midi sound track. 
* versions for Amiga (2 disks), ST (2 double-sided disks) and IBM PC 
  (3 * 3.5" or 5 * 5.25" disks, for EGA/VGA/CGA/TGA and with good 
  sound on Roland/Ad Lib/Sound Blaster). 

Champion of the Raj is a game for 1-6 people, who each choose one of 
the main contenders to unify India, e.g the Viceroy of the British 
East India Company, or the Maharaja of the warrior Sikhs. 

(This avoids the charge of racism which might be made if, for example, 
you had to always take the part of a European hero against the Indians. 
And, because each of the six rulers have different strengths and 
weaknesses, making winning much easier for some than than others, it 
greatly extends the playing time of the game. It's not too hard to win 
as the British, but can you lead the Gurkhas to conquer all India?) 

Erosion of the Mogul empire means that much of India is in chaos and 
falling under the influence of the Thug sect, who specialise in mass 
murder. Whichever of the six contenders you choose to play, your task 
is to bring law and order to the continent and free the peasants by 
defeating the evil Thugs. 

Control is by any of joystick, mouse, arrow keys or numeric key pad. 

The graphical style resembles films such as "The Far Pavilions", 
with lots of military uniforms and rich native colours, arched 
Indian buildings, distant purple mountains, and people used like 
wallpaper. 

MIDI music is used to introduce notable events, and to accompany 
arcade action. Tunes are mostly conventional European music, with 
just an occasional Indian instrument to add atmosphere, though there 
are short "national-anthem-type" fanfares to introduce each player 
in a multi-player game, 


2. Game Outline

2.1 LOADING SCREEN. "Champion of the Raj" starts with a Victorian- 
style animated screen: a heroic soldier stands proudly in a central 
circle, while others defend the fort behind him. Around this radiate 
ornate flags, and Indian figures process across two windows to left 
and right. Music plays, of the rousing "Pomp and Circumstance" type. 


2.2 ANIMATED INTRODUCTION SCREENS follow after a little while, telling  
the story of an English hero's travel to India and introducing the 
background to the game. They are accompanied by appropriate music... 
 1) London docks; hero boards ship.  
 2) Clipper sailing to India. 
 3) Ganges near Calcutta; village in foreground, ship sails past. 
 4) Calcutta docks; hero disembarks. 
 5) Bazaar; hero walks through, followed by sinister figure. 
 6) Hero kidnapped by Thugs, in close-up. 
 7) Thug prison. Guard leaves; princess helps hero escape. 
 8) Jungle outside Thug temple; hero and princess run off together. 
 9) Scenic lake; the two reach a guru's hermitage. 
10) Guru and princess in close-up; guru explains need to unite India. 
11) Government House; fine coach delivers hero to his destination. 
12) Garden Party at Government House; 6 contenders are introduced. 
13) "Last Supper"-style High Table; choose who to play in the game.  

If you do nothing, the game starts again with the loading screen. Or 
press FIRE or a key to play the game... 


2.3 CAST MENU (screen 13 above). This screen shows the six rivals to 
rule a unified Indian Raj, sitting at a table below a grand marquee, 
waited upon by servants. There are icons for the number of players
and "play"... 
* click near the number of players to alter it, or 
* click on one of the contenders to select him - he stands, 
  biographical information is displayed and you can choose to add 
  your own name by clicking above/below the spaces on the screen for 
  its letters (and if more people are now standing than the number 
  of players, one of the others sits), or 
* click on "play" to start the game. 

The potential rulers of the Raj are: 
1) Viceroy of the British East India Company (Protestant),
2) Consul of the French East India Company (Catholic),
3) Emperor of the Mogul Empire (Moslem), 
4) Maharaja of the Maruthra Confederacy of Hindu States, 
5) Maharaja Singh of the Punjab (Sikh), 
6) Chief of the Gurkhas. 

These contenders all have their own characteristics and are arranged 
in difficulty order. A single player who has won as the Viceroy (the 
easiest option) can play again and pick a less favoured candidate. 
Multiple players will play one contender each. 


2.4 STRATEGY GAME. The strategy game is played in each contestant's 
office, and is controlled by means of a hand pointer. On the wall 
is a map showing control of the Indian states, and on the desk are 
a book with details of the current state (whichever one you clicked 
on last), and a bell to summon your "clerk". If the book shows your 
own state, click on it to invest. To one side is a picture of the 
current hero, and on the other are icons for attack, talk 
(negotiate), a parade (which buys status) and "turn end". 

Your tax income can be used to: 
* pay any troops at base (1 thousand gold per 1 thousand troops). 
  But, to encourage attacks, troops which capture a state live there 
  free for a turn, "living off the land"; 
* buy troops (2 thousand gold per 1 thousand troops); 
* invest in economic improvements (meaning more income in future), 
  or in better weaponry (for more effective troops); 
* buy status, so other rulers are more likely to negotiate; 
* keep a reserve (e.g bribery is sometimes the best way to persuade 
  an independent ruler to join your empire. 

The right mixture of spending is vital, and varies with circumstances 
and depending on which state you are playing. 


2.5 ARCADE GAMES. The strategy game is punctuated by six arcade games 
(tiger hunting, elephant racing, army battle, capturing the palace, 
battle in the Thug temple and swordfighting). Most have to be played 
more than once. These have been designed to be instantly playable, and 
benefit more from calm consideration than frantic joystick bashing. 

Furthermore, some of them are "optional", in that it is possible to 
win with the easiest hero (the Viceroy of the East India Company) 
without going tiger hunting or elephant racing. And the penalty for 
losing at games such as e.g the swordfight ("missing a year" due to 
injury) can probably be lived with if you do everything else right. 

But you will certainly have to be good at all the games to win as 
a more difficult hero, such as the Sikh leader of the Punjab. 

The final game is definitely not optional - you must capture the 
Thug temple of Kali to break the power of the Thugs and rule India 
in safety. 


3. OFFICE. Each contestant has an "office" appropriate for his 
standing and nationality, but they are all functionally equivalent. 

             +------+-+-------------------+---+
  EXAMPLE    |      | |                   |   |  The following icons 
  OFFICE...  |      | |                   |   |  are displayed on the 
             | ROOM | |   MAP OF INDIA   OOOO |  wall when appropriate: 
             |WINDOW| |                 OOOOOO|  * Attack 
             |      | |                 OOOOOO|  * Talk 
             |      | |         HERO->   OOOO |  * Parade (Durbah) 
             +------+ |                 OOOOOO|  * End Turn 
             |   +-----------+         OOOOOOO| 
             |   |   BOOK    |--------OOOOOOOO|  And ringing the bell 
             |  _|   WITH    |________OOOOOOOO|  summons your "clerk". 
             | / |   ICONS   |  BELL   \OOOOOO| 
             |/  +-----------+ ON DESK  \OOOOO| 
             +--------------------------------+

People play in turns, each turn being...
* The next (player) ruler's office is displayed. 
* The ruler gets tax income according the the population he controls 
  and the level of his empire's "Industry" and law. Then he pays for 
  all troops in reserve - those "living off the land", in states 
  captured last turn, are free. (These figures are reported by an 
  Indian clerk, in a window which opens over the office). 
* If any special events have occurred, e.g famine or rebellion, a 
  window opens over the office with: a picture of the the clerk or 
  princess, a message, and response boxes "yes", "no" and "not yet". 
  (This latter postpones the decision and removes the window, so that 
  you can use the map etc to get more information. But the wall icons 
  are not displayed, so you can't do much except click on the bell 
  to summon the clerk/princess and return to the postponed decision). 
* Some special events are in the form of a message to visit the Bazaar 
  or Club. If you go, the guru or army officer give information by 
  means of a speech bubble upon the appropriate animated screens, and 
  you must make a "yes" or "no" decision on the spot. 
* Next is the main part of the turn: the player can learn about India, 
  attack, talk or arrange a parade as he wishes - all by clicking upon 
  appropriate states and icons. See below. 
* Finally, you click on the "end turn" icon to finish.  


3.1 OFFICE MAP 

The largest thing in each office is a map showing the terrain of the 
Indian sub-continent, from Afghanistan and Nepal southwards, divided 
into about 25 states and principalities. The map shows political 
control by means of national flags (capitals have more impressive 
flagpoles) and e.g the British East India Company starts with the 
ports of Bengal City and Calcutta, while the crumbling Mogul empire 
controls several central states. 

You can steer a hand across the map, and click on any state to select 
it, which makes it the "current state": e.g the one attacked if you 
then choose the attack icon. Its flag flaps on the map and its report 
is shown in the "book". 


3.2 OFFICE BOOK 

Below the the map on one side, placed here because of the triangular 
shape of India) is a book. When you click on the map, the book changes 
to shows the statistics of the state chosen: 

  ......................... Name of State .........................
   
  Defence : number of defenders      Industry       | Law and Order  
  Graphic : of state (including 5)   Graphic        | Graphic        
  --------+-----------------------   ---------------+--------------    
  Attack  : number of unassigned     Wealth         : amount of money     
  Graphic : troops in the empire     Graphic        : in treasury 

The defence and attack graphics show fortifications and troops/weapons 
respectively. The pictures reflect weaponry (military level). 

The Industry graphics vary from a particularly poor bullock cart 
to a splendid railway locomotive. Law and order varies from a ruin to 
a smart policeman. And wealth, which reflects square root (income/10), 
is an appropriately sized pile of treasure. 

Click on any part of the book you want to know more about: e.g name for 
a description of the state, or the defence graphic to learn which 
number it represents (and, if it's your turn and your state, to learn 
the cost of increasing the number and to be given the chance of doing 
so). These details are reported on a window, decorated by the head of 
the Hindu clerk who is assumed to be giving the report.  


3.3 OFFICE BELL 

The bell summons an Indian servant who acts as your clerk. Normally 
this achieves little, but he occasionally has advice or postponed 
decisions for you to make. 


3.4 OFFICE WALL ICONS

Various icons appear on the office wall when appropriate...  
* Attack (click on this to invade the currently selected state). 
  This icon only appears if the current state is adjacent to one of 
  yours, you have some remaining uncommitted troops (individual 
  troops can only attack once per turn), and you have not been 
  defeated this turn. 
* Talk (click to offer an alliance with the ruler). 
  This icon only appears if you have not yet negotiated this turn. 
* Parade (click to hold an impressive Durbah and raise your status. 
  This influences future negotiations). This icon only appears if you 
  can afford a Durbah, but have already held one this turn. 
* Turn End (click to end your turn). 

(If any special events have been postponed and not dealt with yet, 
none of the above icons appear, while the bell is made more obvious.)   


ATTACK. After clicking on the icon, a window opens with: 
* a picture of troops on parade, 
* who is attacking who, 
* numbers of attackers (initially 0) and defenders (initially the 
  0.1 percent of the population who volunteer free), 
* consequent combat odds (the attacker really needs 2:1 or better), 
* and icons for "+", "-" and "OK". 
Adjust the number of attackers, by "+" and "-", and click on OK. 
 
The defender then decides how many of his troops in garrison to 
use as additional defenders (e.g troops who attacked elsewhere last 
turn cannot be used). Computer-controlled states do this themselves; 
if the defender is human controlled, control temporarily returns to 
the defending player (if necessary his office is redisplayed and a 
snatch of national anthem played) and he adjusts the number of 
defenders in the corresponding way to that of the attacker.  

If the odds are mismatched, the battle is depicted by a static screen 
of hand-to-hand combat, with martial music and the numbers of troops 
counting down as casualties take their toll. Finally, the result is 
superimposed: e.g "Bengal fought off France with 2 casualties". 
      
If the odds are close, the attacker (or defender against a computer- 
controlled attacker) gets the option to take over before fighting 
starts and play the "army battle" arcade game. See later. 


PARADE. The first Durbah screen is displayed, with local royals on 
the reviewing stand, while you click on "+" or "-" to select the 
number of elephants you want to pay for (which is equal to the status 
gained). Then click on "OK" to let the elephants parade. 
 

TALK. The clerk visits the ruler of the current state and returns 
with his answer. Depending on your status, he either gives a "polite" 
refusal, or else invites you to discuss politics while playing the 
ruler's favoured sport: either Elephant Racing or man-eating Tiger 
Hunting. 
 
If you do well enough in the sport, the ruler may then offer to join 
your empire as a protected state - provided you will give him a big 
enough bribe. A text screen asks this; click on yes or no. 
  
Emperors never give up their empires, but independent states and 
rebellious states controlled by other empires are a fair bet. 


TURN END. Click on this to end your turn and pass control to the next 
state. 
 
4. ARCADE GAMES 

Your decisions and the "random" events in the game often lead to 
short interludes of arcade action. These are sometimes optional, 
at the cost of losing reputation. 

The guru helps disguise the loading times for arcade games. His head, 
and the head of the current hero, are displayed on a text window, 
initially with instructions for the game to come, and subsequently 
with one of the guru's many wise sayings. 


4.1 TIGER HUNT. Shoot a feared man-eater from elephant back. The game 
is 3D, with your silhouette in the foreground and a multi-layered 
jungle in the background, with various animals moving about among 
the trees and vines. Eventually the tiger charges forward, getting 
quite big in the final frame. 

You have a double-barrelled shotgun, aimed by cross hairs, which 
is automatically reloaded after each second shot, but very slowly. 
You lose points for missed shots, shooting the wrong animal etc. 
If you miss a charging tiger, it wins (this is shown by means of a 
large tiger's head - snarling and opening its mouth to bite). This 
ends the game and gets you wounded. 

Sounds: tiger roar, bird squawks, gun explosion. 

Nobody who matters is "killed" in Raj, but you can be badly wounded 
while Tiger Hunting or fighting. Then you have to recuperate during 
the next turn, and your empire is put on autopilot. (The reports are 
still given, but your office is empty of the large hero and you can 
not do anything much).

After a the tiger hunt, if your score is positive the Raja may be 
prepared to offer you a partnership. 


2. ELEPHANT RACING. This is a vertically scrolling game, seen from 
almost vertically above, with two large elephants (perhaps 4*6 
cells) racing southwards along a wide earth track between two 
grandstands of tiny animated spectators. Banners cross the track, 
and there are overhanging trees etc to illustrate the 3D. Finally, 
the first elephant to get a nose past the winning posts wins. 

The game starts beside a grandstand (also used for tiger hunting and 
the Durbah) where the two contestants climb ladders into the baskets 
atop their elephants. Then we have the race itself, and then back to 
the grandstand for a victory ceremony. 

The racetrack is about 3 screens high, with occasional obstacles 
and varied terrain to limit the maximum safe gallop speed. Control 
is e.g by joystick: left/right/slower/faster, and pressing fire 
flicks your whip out in the corresponding direction. The method of 
play resembles Roman chariot racing and you are allowed to whip your 
opponent. 

The second elephant is allowed to go a bit faster than the leading 
one, to give you a chance to catch up after a fall. 

Two small windows show the faces of the contestants to top left and 
top right (using existing graphics for the faces) and a small window 
opens centrally if someone is thrown - a tiny (all people are TINY 
on this screen, for contrast with the elephant) figure then scrambles 
back to the elephant while the game continues. The elephants have 
animated heads and lively trunks, and their front feet can be seen on 
each step, but are animated fairly simply. 

Sounds: cheering, elephants, footfalls. 


3. ARMY BATTLE. Unequal battles are handled by your generals and 
simply shown via a small semi-animated window, opened upon the 
office screen. There are sound effects of battle, and numbers 
of combatants (i.e numeric numbers) decrease until one side is 
declared the winner. A player only takes command if the odds 
are fairly even (and if both attacker and defender are players, 
then only the attacking player gets to control troops personally). 

The enemy commander may approach and offer to surrender if he can 
run a Protected State on your behalf. This happens maybe 25% of the 
time if you have a reasonable chance of success (i.e not worse than 
even odds). If you accept, there is no battle and you can go on to 
attack another state the same turn. 

Conversely, while watching the battle, and retreating if things 
go too badly, you may find some of your forces "bought off" by 
bribes until after the fighting. 

The battle screen shows the hero in the foreground (as in his 
office, but reflected) with low hills and trees etc behind, across 
which move the tiny (book-icon-sized) figures of troops. 

The program knows about a small number of different fields of 
combat (open, hilly, with river, and with a fortress town to 
attack) and builds up the actual screen by using one of these to 
position terrain features semi-randomly. E.g we might have a few 
2*2 cell coppices of trees, which could be repeatedly inserted in 
order to build up a scrubby wood (NOT impenetrable forest). 
Terrain has a significant effect on combat, so don't e.g order 
outnumbered defenders out of a town. 

Guns, elephants, cavalry groups and infantry of various qualities 
are placed on the landscape and/or can move through the landscape, 
each group carrying a flag to show its allegiance. 

Battle proceeds as in Caesar, Lords of the Rising Sun, or Prince, 
and is quite quick as outnumbered troops (or those bombarded by the 
artilliary) tend to panic and run. Troops automatically fight on 
contact, except for elephants which plough through everything. 

In front of our foreground hero are "Orders" and "Fight" icons; the 
orders one calls up a speech-bubble menu with icons for guns, 
cavalry, elephants and infantry down the left and the current 
orders for each type down the right. (A player only has the troop 
types up to and including that for his current weaponry level, and 
in numbers proportionate to the troops there). Click on 
the current orders to step onto the next option, and on OK to exit. 

Orders are.. 
Guns: fire at cavalry/elephants/etc. 
Elephants: stand/advance/charge/retreat  
Cavalry: stand/advance/charge/circle/retreat 
Infantry: stand/advance/charge/retreat 

The game ends with one side fleeing in general disarray. 

Sounds: cannon shots, general battle, cheering crowd. 

(Warning: with the other arcade games, I think I have a fairly good 
idea of their complexity and can schedule the work properly. But I 
am very unsure how long the army battle will take to code. If it 
proves to be harder than I expect, the army battle may be cut or 
changed in the released game.) 


4. CAPTURING THE PALACE. When you capture the capital state of an 
empire, you must capture the emperor in an arcade game or he 
will just set up shop somewhere else (either in one of his other 
states, or if there are none, by leading an immediate rebellion). 

A graphics sequence shows cannon breaking down the gates, then a 
white flag is raised and you play the game by fighting bravely 
through the town streets. Once at the palace doors, another graphic 
sequence shows you walking left-right to the throne and accepting 
the prince's allegiance. 

The game is on several scrolling screens, and uses a Gauntlet-ish 
view from overhead (though the graphics are properly 3D, rather than 
based on a "tile map"). You walk up the screen through the town and 
fight or avoid a few snipers who have not surrendered but remain 
hidden in the rubble. (Also present are some non-combatant "slave 
girls" who cannot be shot). The joystick or mouse controls your 
movement in 8-directions, and fire triggers your pistol. The broken 
walls etc. block bullets. 

Sounds: cannon shots, cheering, gunshot, footsteps. 


5. BATTLE IN THE THUG TEMPLE: the finale. When you rule all of India 
and the game is about to finish, a mysterious figure appears out of 
the gloom. He claims to know the whereabouts of the Thug temple, 
leads you there, but then springs an ambush by the guards. 

The game is much the same as "Capturing the Palace", above, but 
in an underground setting with lots of statues; some of them nude. 
The soldiers are replaced by robed assassins who throw knives, and 
it all ends with the attack on a huge, topless, 8-armed Kali statue. 
She throws knives and is very hard to damage. 


6. SWORDFIGHT. "Suttee" is the discredited Hindu custom whereby a 
high-caste widow was burnt on her husband's funeral pyre. You learn 
that the princess is about to suffer this fate (even though she's 
not married) and hasten to help. 

The scene is shown side-on, with three Thugs dragging the girl 
towards the flames. You enter stage right, the girl breaks free 
(leaving some of her silks behind) and escapes to safety at the 
edge of the screen, where she acts as a cheer-leader. 

The swordfight game uses a subtle control method, designed to look 
good and simulate combat accurately: 
* By default, the hero and his Thug opponent attack and parry 
  each other's blows roughly alternately. So the scene resembles 
  a proper battle even if a novice (or nobody) is playing. 
* Control is by moving a cursor across a 3*3 grid: left-right are 
  attack/stand/retreat, and up-down are high/middle/low blows. 
  Your choice of attack/stand/retreat affects the probability of 
  each parry working (retreating is best, but the hero can only 
  retreat so far) and you press FIRE to replace the next computer- 
  selected blow-or-parry by your currently chosen blow. Each 
  opponent is more vulnerable to one attack type than the others, 
  and your aim is to learn these weaknesses and exploit them. 
* The hero wins if he defeats all the attacking Thugs without 
  suffering too many wounds. 

Sounds: clashing swords, elephants, marriage music etc. 


6b. ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT. A Thug assassin creeps in as you sleep 
(e.g after the seduction scene); you luckily wake and fight him 
off, as in the swordfight above. 


                         APPENDICES... 

The contestants to rule India are, in more detail.. 

Viceroy of the British East India Company. The British begin with 
very little land, just small settlements at Bombay City and Calcutta 
(the historical Madras one is omitted), but with many advantages. 
They start with: 
* Improved Infrastructure, due to control of the seas;  
* Superior Army, due to good technology level; 
* Small initial territory; 
* Average Law and Order; 
* Protestant religion; 
* Enemy only of France; 
* Specials: Automatic transport to Coastal States. EIC refuses tax 
  income from England after turn 5, and thereafter requires an 
  increasing amount of profit to be repaid. 

Consul of the French East India Company. The French also start with 
two small settlements - Pondicherry and Chandernagore - but with most 
of the same advantages as the British. They start with: 
* Improved Infrastructure, due to a large fleet; 
* Superior Army, due to good technology level; 
* Small initial territory; 
* Average Law and Order; 
* Catholic religion; 
* Enemy only of Britain; 
* Specials: can call once upon Napoleon for reinforcements, during 
  1800-1815 inclusive, and get 50 troops. FEIC refuses tax income 
  from France after turn 5, and thereafter requires an increasing 
  amount of tax to be repaid. 

Emperor of the Mogul Empire. He notionally rules most of India, 
from his capital of Delhi, but in practice his control is limited 
to the kingdoms with a reasonable proportion of Moslems: Rajputana 
and the lands along the Ganges. His empire is kept from collapse 
by the wealth of Bengal. It starts with: 
* Poor Infrastructure; 
* Poor Army (but gains from ruling the Sikhs); 
* Large initial territory; 
* Abysmal Law and Order; 
* Moslem religion; 
* Enemy of Hindu States; 
* Special: gains double status from Durbahs. 

Maharaja of the Maruthra Confederacy of Hindu states, across 
Central India. These warlike people occasionally resort to banditry 
against their neighbours, tend to switch to the winning side in 
battle, and are not greatly trusted. They start with: 
* Poor Infrastructure; 
* Average Army; 
* Large initial territory; 
* Poor Law and Order; 
* Hindu religion; 
* Enemy of Moslem States; 
* Special: can "raid" in place of a normal attack. This gains 1-10 
  gold from the raided land, if they had it in the treasury. Because 
  the raid does not end in conquest, it ends the Maruthra turn. 

Maharaja Singh of the Punjab, in the northwest. In real history, 
the alliance of the Sikhs with the Raj was a major factor in its 
success - in this game, the Sikh warriors have a good chance of 
expanding their empire to control India. They start with: 
* Average Infrastructure; 
* Good Army; 
* small initial territory; 
* Average Law and Order; 
* Sikh religion; 
* No particular enemies; 
* Special: good initial position on the map. 

Chief of the Gurkhas. Latecomers on the scene, the Gurkha warriors 
have expanded their fledgling empire to control all of Nepal, and 
are currently eyeing the Mogul lands to the south. They start with: 
* Poor Infrastructure; 
* Superior Army, due to social structure; 
* Small initial territory; 
* Average Law and Order; 
* Buddhist religion; 
* No enemies; 
* Specials: anyone attacking Nepal does so at half strength. Gurkhas 
  do not accept bribes to desert in battle. 


                   STATISTICS OF INDIAN STATES 

POPULATION is basically fixed. It determines the tax take, and 
increases the cost of investment. 

ARMY and TREASURY. Only independent states have these. After a 
successful revolt, a newly independent state begins with an army 
with 1 troop per million population, but nothing in the bank 
because the fleeing royals take "their" money. 

INDUSTRY equates to technology level, and is depicted by a series 
of graphics from a collapsing bullock cart to a high speed steam 
locomotive. Tax is proportional to industry. 

WEAPONRY is indicated by pictures from peasants with scythes, up 
to a field gun. There is a bonus if you control any Sikhs, and 
others for Gurkhas and either of the Europeans, but a penalty for 
ruling both Hindus and Moslems. Army size depends on how many troops 
you want to pay. 

LAW is shown by pictures from a ruined hovel, up to judges and 
then a ballot box (for democracy). The proportion of tax income 
which reaches the central government is higher in a law abiding 
state - tax income is effectively multiplied by law and order. 

RELIGION does not change and shown by the following graphics: 
* Catholic: priest in robes, with cummerbund and walking stick 
  sized cross. Between 1800-1815, becomes French peasant in cap. 
* Hindu: clean shaven man in turban.
* Moslem: bearded man in turban.
* Protestant: priest in suit and clerical collar. 
* Sikh: bushy bearded man in turban, holding curved dagger. 
* Buddhist: bald monk in robes. 

Religious differences have the following effects: 
* Hindus do not mix very well with Moslems/Sikhs. An empire run 
  by one will have greater trouble taking over states inhabited 
  by the other, and they will be more likely to rebel. And they 
  are unlikely to ask the other for temporary alliances. 
* Computer controlled empires. Hindus will avoid competing with 
  each other; Hindus compete against Moslems/Sikhs; and Catholics 
  against Protestants. 
* Some of the random events affect particular religions. 

ENEMY. The enemy of each state defaults according to religious 
differences (which continue to affect policy), but changes to show 
the state or empire considered most annoying or threatening. All 
peaceful states of an empire share the same "enemy"; if a state 
revolts, the empire is shown as its "enemy" etc. 

SPECIAL. To add variety to the game, and reflect the diversity of 
the Indian subcontinent, every empire is given a unique advantage. 
Some are more advantageous than others. 



GENERAL NOTES ABOUT STATISTICS... 

Investment. Any of the above statistics can be improved by investing 
money. The increase is related to money divided by population, and 
is evenly spread across the entire empire. A statistic cannot be 
increased by more than one in any turn, and the cost of an increase 
equals the increase squared times the population of the empire. 

Average statistics for an empire are calculated on a modified root 
mean square (RMS) basis, weighted by population: overall value = 
square root of ((value squared * state population) for all states 
/ total population). Fortunately, the program does the work! This 
equation works well, and reflects the fact that rich areas have more 
of an influence in an empire than poor states. European homelands are 
assessed as having an effective population of 8 million. 


                             WARFARE 

Each state or empire allocates its income between reserves, 
investment and maintaining a standing army. (If enlarging the army, 
you pay recruits double in the first turn). Perhaps one third will 
be spent on the army in an average computer controlled state, 
though martial peoples like Sikhs or Gurkhas may keep more troops. 

Troops can fight inside their empire, and in adjacent states (next to 
the part of their empire containing the capital). 

The army acts as a standing reserve, to be allocated piecemeal 
according to the events of the following period. For example, a 
revolt may need troops to quell, you may want to launch an invasion, 
another state may offer money or land in return for military help 
and so on. Of course, you can only use troops once, so you may miss 
out on opportunities if you temporarily run out of available troops. 

Capturing a state in a frontal assault may require quite a large 
effort - you need 2:1 odds if losses (mainly by desertion) are to 
be equal, and 4:1 is desirable - because I want to encourage the 
characteristic Indian practice of waiting for a state to become 
undefended (e.g when the old ruler dies) and accepting the "random 
event" invitation to support a figurehead claimant to the throne. 

Bear in mind that an invaded state can try to buy help from a 
neighbour. 

When you capture the capital state of an empire, you must capture 
the emperor in an arcade game. If you succeed, you take over the 
rest of the empire as protected states. This also applies when the 
defeated emperor was a player. 

If you attack one of your own protected states, it instantly rebels 
and is given the usual rebel army. If you defeat the revolt of a 
protected state, it becomes a wholly-owned part of your empire. 


                              STATUS 

Raj India was very status conscious. Though status is not reported, 
it is very important if you hope to build an empire the "easy way". 
Rulers are more likely to give alliances to, and accept alliances 
from, high status people. 

The main way of buying status is to hold a "Durbah", or tournament, 
which costs anything above 11 gold. The Durbah begins with a close- 
up of princes on a reviewing stand, followed by a distant view of a 
grand procession of elephants. Gain in status = number of elephants 
= cost-10. 

Specific effects on status when an individual country needs to make 
a decision.. +10 if help needed against a country who the candidate 
has as their enemy, halved for help from a country with the wrong 
religion (Hindu vs Moslem, or Catholic vs Protestant). 

When somebody is attacked and expects to lose (i.e if the attacker 
could use half his available troops against all the defender's 
available troops and get 2:1 or better), they can approach one 
neighbour for help, as a "white knight". Only neighbours with enough 
offensive troops, to potentially redress the odds, are candidates. 
When deciding which country to approach, the odds of each is 
proportional to its status, modified as above. 



                        WINNING AND LOSING 

The game ends when your Raj covers the whole of India (with a bonus 
if you do better than History and conquer Afghanistan too). 

On the negative side, you can be assassinated/recalled by the 
Company if profits fall too low, or if you make too many enemies 
among the ruling Community (so spend money on banquets and 
durbahs: the Victorian equivalents of bread and circuses). It 
will be difficult to die (you will normally just have to spend 
a long time recovering in hospital), but it is possible. 

The game also ends if it goes on too long. (This is basically a 
failsafe against stalemate - I think such things are impossible, but 
it's better to be sure). 

The aim is for a varied, challenging game which is not too difficult 
to play and which has many good graphical scenes. An ideal game to 
show friends on your PC after you come home from the pub, but also 
one which has to be played many times to get the perfect result. 


                        SPECIAL EVENTS 

Random events can occur during each player's turn. Except for 
assassination, you learn these by text messages... 
* Assassination attempt. When a player owns the biggest territory, 
  there is a 25% chance each turn that somebody tries to assassinate 
  him. This is an arcade game, played about once per game. 
* Seduction. Under the guise of a message from the guru in the bazaar, 
  the hero is lured to a meeting with a "slave girl". If you consent, 
  she disrobes, but subsequently Thugs try to surprise and kill you. 
  * Suttee. After the third round has started, there is a chance each 
  turn (10% / number of players) than a request is received to help 
  the princess escape from Thugs. This is another arcade game, played 
  once per game, and gains the winner a wife, state and 10-20 gold. 
* Earthquake/Flood/Monsoon Fails. No income from the affected 
  area(s) of India. Unless you assign troops and money for famine 
  relief (population/infrastructure), the infrastructure and law-and-
  order are reduced in the famine states, and status gets worse. 
* Thug attacks increase to celebrate an anniversary. People are 
  fleeing and the population will be drastically reduced unless you 
  assign (a number of) troops to police duty. 
* Hindu/Moslem riots (only if the empire includes both). As just above. 
* An ancient temple is uncovered. Gain 10 gold. 
* Rebellion. Not truly random. Rebel forces = population/2, and you 
  defend without any garrison. If the revolt succeeds, the newly 
  independent state will also get its own turn. 
* Your daughter is to be married and needs a dowry (Indians only). 
  Status change = 2*dowry - 10. 
* Bandits raid your treasury from a neighbouring state. (Aggressive 
  states, e.g Afghanistan and Nepal, do this to encourage you to 
  conquer them). 
* The heir to a random country plans to lead a rebellion (which will 
  happen later, in its ruler's turn) and will ally with you as a 
  protected state if he wins. You must promise at least 5 troops. 

European rulers (only) have the following additional random events, 
introduced by a full-screen picture of upper-class europeans lounging 
in a club. And the Indian face at the bottom left of the text screen 
is replaced by a pompous British one. In the events, the Anglo- or 
Franco-Indians insist that you..  
* Spend some money on their entertainment.  
* Or that you have less Indians in high positions (reduce law and 
  increase the risk of rebellion).
* Or that more troops are put on permanent garrison duty in the 
  original settlement cities. 
* Or that you marry a plain white girl (use background of the other 
  wedding). You get no dowry and must pay for the ceremony. 
* Or that you return to answer before Parliament (in effect, you are 
  wounded next turn). 
* Or that you save money by feeding all your troops the same food as 
  the Europeans (guarantees rebellions next turn). 

               PICTURES FOR CHAMPION OF THE RAJ 

All screens are full height and have a distinctive Indian and/or 
Victorian feel. In the first instance, they are drawn for PC EGA. 

LOADING SCREEN/INTRODUCTION/CAST MENU. A total of 14 animated screens 
which tell the story of a journey to India, introduce the enemy Thugs 
and introduce the six rivals to unite India. The screens have already 
been described, above. 

6 OFFICES. Each of the six rivals to rule India are potential player 
characters, and they have flags and instantly distinctive "offices" 
where strategic decisions are made. All offices have the following: 
* relief map of India, with state boundaries and flags to show control, 
* book (or scroll) to show details of the current selected state, 
* bell (or equivalent) to summon a servant, 
* large picture of the "hero" at one side. 
* space for the parade/talk/attack/next turn icons. 
* a window looking onto the world outside the office, with spot 
  "cameo" animation appropriate to the nationality of the hero. 

LINKING SCREENS. Arcade games are typically sandwiched between a pair 
of "static" screens, and further such screens accompany major events. 
The full list of such screens is...

WINDOWS which open upon the main screen: 
* text window with guru and/or hero and/or princess; 
* rebellion Scene;
* army recruitment/dispatch;
* army Battle;
* long view of battered city;
* seduction by "slave girl", and her undressing in silhouette; 
* kissing the princess; 
* receive crown from former ruler; 
* receive sport trophy. 

SPECIAL EVENT SCREENS... 
* "Club scene" for European requests for you to do something 
* "Bazaar scene" for Indian requests for the same. This may also be 
  used as background if you lose. The guru does the talking. 

"Marquee/Grandstand scene" to introduce most active sports. This has 
variations for: 
* Mounting elephants before the tiger hunt, or elephant race 
* Ordering elephants before the Durbah 
* Collecting a trophy after the sport. 

"Walk to throne scene" after the city is captured, or after you are 
married to an Indian princess. 

"Long view of Thug temple" in the jungle, before the final temple 
capture game. 

"Awake, attacked scene", showing a black-robed assassin staring at 
the screen and about to use his strangle cord. In the foreground is 
a bed with one or two pairs of feet below the covers. 

OTHER SCREENS ARE... 
Durbah. Elephants, the same size as on the loading screen, process 
across the screen, through a crowd. 

Close-up office maps: twice the dimensions of the normal one. They 
have exactly the same borders, but are more detailed. 

"Fireworks over the Taj Mahal" when you control India. 


ARCADE GAME PICTURES. Some arcade games start with an introductory 
sequence; others go straight into the action. In either case, a 
text window is displayed while the game loads, typically showing the 
heads of the guru and the hero - with either play instructions, or 
one of the guru's many wise sayings. 

In summary, the individual game pictures are as follows... 
* Tiger Hunt: one screen, with current contender in foreground. Plus 
  a close-up of the snarling tiger, opening its mouth to bite you. 
* Elephant Race: Marquee scene; Elephant Paddock; Top-down view of 
  north-south scrolling racetrack, between two rows of grandstands 
  with tiny animated onlookers (so the elephants are big in 
  comparison); Marquee scene again for the prize ceremony. 
* Army Battle: recruitment window; then, where the result is a 
  foregone conclusion, a window showing close-up hand-to-hand 
  fighting soldiers is opened, to report the result. 
  Close battles use a variety of landscape sections to build up a 
  landscape, plus tiny soldiers to fight across it. 
* Capturing the Palace: graphics sequence of splendid town, with 
  cannons breaking down its gates, followed by components to allow 
  us to make up perhaps 8 random screens of sideways-scrolling ruins. 
  I propose to go for a Gauntlet-ish 45-degree-from-above view, with 
  a small hero, noncombatant "slave girls"and opposing Indian 
  peasants. A final screen shows the hero (from the side) walking 
  along a red carpet to accept the surrender of the opposing prince. 
  There are slightly different versions to suit e.g the surrender of 
  different princes.  
* Capturing the Thug Temple: Doors of Kali temple grind open. The game 
  screens are as "Capturing the Palace", but some of the scenery is 
  more temple-like with nude statues and the defenders are religious 
  Thug fanatics throwing knives. The final goal is a crown, guarded by 
  a topless 8-armed statue of Kali. The whole game then ends with 
  fireworks over the Taj Mahal. 
* Swordfight: This has 60-pixel high fighters, with 3 backgrounds: 
  Riverside with bonfire (for rescuing the princess from Thugs - she 
  remains and acts as a cheerleader); Bedroom (when defending yourself 
  from an assassination attempt - if she's there, the "slave girl" 
  is cheerleader for the Thugs); Palace. 


                                MUSIC 

MIDI music is used to introduce notable events, and to accompany 
the arcade games. There is no continuous music in the office (while 
playing the strategy game) because I think this would seen get 
wearisome. As is usual with film music, most tunes are conventional 
European mood music, with just an occasional Indian instrument to 
add atmosphere. Exceptions are the short "national-anthem-type" 
fanfares/jingles which introduce each turn in a multi-player game, 
and ethnic music for the Indian Bazaar and English club scenes. 

Tunes marked "+" need to repeat. 

The introductory tunes are as follows: 
* Title music, probably with a strong march feel, and at least one 
  contrasting theme of an Indian character (3 mins+). 
* Nautical music, for the sea voyage (30 secs), blending into another 
  arrangement of the same thing (20 secs+) with an Indian feel. 
* Bazaar theme (30 secs+); the same as that for the bazaar in the game. 
* Shock, as the hero is struck (20 secs), blending into music for a 
  gloomy prison with water dripping from the ceiling (20 secs+). 
* Happy jungle music, as the hero and princess escape to her father, 
  the old guru (50 secs+). 
* Solemn music, as the guru explains India's sad plight (30 secs+) 
* Light chamber music, played by the local band, as the hero attends 
  a garden party and meets his rivals for the throne of Empire (3 mins+). 

The tunes in the game are as follows: 
* Short fanfares/jungles/themes (5-10 secs) to introduce the heroes: 
  o British Viceroy (Rule Brittania?) 
  o French Console (Marseillese?) 
  o Mogul Emperor (Proud and stately) 
  o Maruthra Maharaja (Fat and pompous) 
  o Maharaja Singh of the Punjab (Fierce and Warlike) 
  o Chief of the Gurkhas (use those Peruvian pan-pipes, that sound 
    like blowing across a bottle, to illustrate Nepal's windy heights). 
* Tiger Hunt theme (1 minute+). 
* Elephant Race theme (30 seconds+). 
* Army Battle theme (1 minute+). 
* Capturing the Palace theme (running about on foot. 1 minute+). 
* Capturing the Thug Temple theme (spooky/dripping water. 30 secs+). 
* Swordfight theme (1 minute+). 
* Celebratory music for parades etc (1 minute+). 
* Oom-pah music for British club (30 secs+). 
* Indian music for Bazaar (30 secs+). 
* Seduction music (1 minute). 
* Jokily sad music for if the player loses (30 secs+). 
