
Champion of the Raj Outline Design.Copyright (C) 2 July 90 by Level 9 

The game is in the spirit of "Defender of the Crown" and set in the 
early 1800s when India was being united as the British Raj. It has: 
* a twelve screen animated introduction;
* a central strategy game (a bit like the classic game "Hamurabi", 
  this combines territorial conquest with economic investment); 
* six arcade games (tiger hunting, elephant racing, army battle, 
  capturing the palace, battle in the temple, and swordfight); 
* many animated screens depicting local events; 
* digitised sound effects and a midi sound track. 
* versions for Amiga (2 disks), ST (2 double-sided disks) and IBM PC 
  (3 * 3.5" or 5 * 5.25" disks, for EGA/VGA/CGA/TGA and with good 
  sound on Roland/Ad Lib/Sound Blaster). 

Champion of the Raj is a game for 1-6 people, who each choose one of 
the main contenders to unify India, e.g the Viceroy of the British 
East India Company, or the emperor of the crumbling Mogul Empire. 

Erosion of the Mogul empire means that much of India is in chaos and 
falling under the influence of the Thug sect, who specialise in mass 
murder. Whichever of the six contenders you choose to play, your task 
is to bring law and order to the continent and free the peasants by 
defeating the evil Thugs. 


                           MAIN DISPLAY 

There are six versions of the main display: the headquarters of the 
six contenders. All are quite similar, with a large map of India on 
the wall, a book or scroll with economic information, a bell to 
summon servants and end your turn, and "you" sitting on one side. 

The map shows the Indian sub-continent from Afghanistan and Nepal 
southwards, with the many states and principalities left by the 
continuing collapse of the Mogul Empire. The map shows political 
control; for example the British East India Company starts with 
the ports of Bengal City and Calcutta, while the crumbling Mogul 
empire still controls eight or ten central states. 

Your turn starts with the collection of taxes and payment for troops 
in barracks. Then you take multiple-choice decisions to cope with 
special events: a servant or the princess reports on the state of 
your empire (e.g rebellion, famine, or offer of an alliance), or one 
of outside narrators (a bearded guru, or British colonel) may report
on the wishes of the Indian and European communities respectively. 

Next you steer a hand across the map, and click on any state to 
select it: its flag flaps on the map, and its report is shown in 
the "book", which you can click on for more details, or to adjust 
a figure if you own the state shown. Information includes...
* Industry and Law level icons, 
* Weaponry icon and Troop numbers, in garrison and reserve, 
* Income icon and amount of money in treasury. 

Various icons appear on the office wall: 
* Attack (click on this to invade the currently selected state); 
* Talk   (click to offer an alliance with the ruler of this state); 
* Parade (click to hold an impressive Durbah and raise your status. 
          This influences future negotiations). 

                          ARCADE GAMES 

Your decisions and the "random" events in the game often lead to 
short interludes of arcade action. These are sometimes optional, 
at the cost of losing reputation, and are.. 

TIGER HUNT. A group of rogue tigers have been attacking villagers, 
and you may be invited to help deal with them before negotiations. 
The idea is to shoot these feared man-eaters from elephant back. 

The game is 3D, with your silhouette in the foreground and a multi- 
layered jungle in the background, with various animals moving about 
among the trees and vines. Eventually each tiger charges forward, 
getting quite big in the final frame, while you try to hit it with 
one of your two shots (loading a shotgun is a slow process) - miss 
and the tiger wins; there is a close-up of its final bite. 


ELEPHANT RACING (another way to show your worth before negotiations). 
This version is an Indian equivalent of a Ben Hur chariot race, where 
you must guide your tusker down the scrolling racetrack, seen from 
above, between grandstands of cheering spectators. 

Elephant Racing is not officially a contact sport, but there are 
no rules and whipping at your opponent and barging their elephant 
is one way to win. An additional element of skill is added by 
the variable terrain underfoot - trying to go too fast through 
mud will get you thrown (a window opens to show this). 


ARMY BATTLE (attack a state, or defend yourself). Normally combat is 
just shown by a standard view of hand-to-hand fighting, but if the 
odds are about even you may want to take command of the battle. 

Choose your initial battle plan from the half-dozen options 
available; then modify your troops' orders as the combat unfolds 
by means of icons upon the battle menu. Combat is fast and furious, 
taking less than a minute, and ends with the flight of losing army. 


CAPTURING THE PALACE. When you capture the capital state of an empire, 
you must capture the palace. The game is played on one of five 
scrolling city maps, viewed from 45-degrees above, with 32-pixel 
high people (soldiers and hareem girls) moving through 3D streets, 
buildings and open spaces. Your army has broken down the city gates, 
but to save unnecessary bloodshed you must fight to the palace alone. 


BATTLE IN THE THUG TEMPLE (triggered when India is united and the 
Thugs can no longer hide). The finale. The game is much the same 
as "Capturing the Palace", above, but the enemy soldiers are 
replaced by robed assassins who throw knives, and it all ends 
with the attack on an 8-armed Kali statue who throws knives. 


SWORDFIGHT. The princess has been kidnapped and is held by a group 
of Thugs, but wriggles free and escapes topless before grabbing e.g 
a fan and returning as a cheerleader. 

The scene is shown side-on; you enter stage left, as a 60-pixel high 
figure, sword-fight and rescue the girl. She kisses you in close-up 
and we cut to marriage scenes. This game is not a "joystick bash"; 
if you do nothing the hero and opponent strike and parry roughly 
alternately; controls allow you to advance or retreat, and to over- 
ride the computer's choice of blow with one designed to exploit each 
enemy's weaknesses. 

The swordfight game is also played if the Thugs decide to assassinate 
the hero; either if you allow yourself to be seduced by a "slave girl" 
in their pay, or if it seems you are about to win. Both versions begin 
with an "effects" picture showing the hero in bed. 


                       EXAMPLE EVENT SCREENS

The "random" events in the game are often accompanied by their own 
screens; not actual games but with animation and movement. Eg.. 
* Elephants process through the Durbah. 
* Negotiation with peasants in the bazaar. 
* Fireworks over the Taj Mahal. 


                        WINNING AND LOSING  

The game ends when your Raj covers the whole of India, or if one 
of the computer-controlled players conquers your dominions. Or if 
you are assassinated or e.g recalled by the East India Company when 
profits fall too low. It will be difficult to die (you will normally 
just miss a year recuperating) but this is possible. 

Champion of the Raj is a varied and attractive game, which is easy 
to learn and play as one of the powerful rulers, but a real challenge 
as a weaker prince. And it can be played many times, as each ruler 
needs different tactics to win.  
