

    PICTURES FOR CHAMPION OF THE RAJ. Copyright (C) 1989 Level 9 

This is a 1-6 player computer game, where players take the parts of 
the following contenders to become ruler of a united Indian Raj: 
1) Viceroy of the British East India Company (Protestant), 
2) Consul of the French East India Company (Catholic), 
3) Emperor of the Moghul Empire (Moslem), 
4) Maharajah of the Maruthra Confederacy of Hindu States, 
5) Maharajah Singh of the Punjab (Sikh), 
6) Chief of the Gurkhas. 

These very different people are all potential player characters, 
and they have flags and instantly distinctive "offices" where 
strategic decisions are made. 

All screens are full height and have a distinctive Indian and/or 
Victorian feel. In the first instance, they are drawn with 
IBM/EGA pallettes. 


LOADING SCREEN. Victorian-style screen, with a heroic British 
Soldier, surrounded by flags and a parade. The flags twitch, the 
central figure can smile and also shoot his revolver in the air. 
People defend the curtain wall behind him. To bottom left and right 
are two windows, across which parade entertainers and elephants 
respectively (these latter are the same as used in the Durbah). 


CAST MENU. Has the faces of the six contenders, in a circle. Click 
on a face to select that person and open a window with just their 
face, a text description and "OK". Already chosen heads are 
indicated in some way on the main screen, e.g on a nice-shaped 
background which gets beighter, and clicking on one of these 
cancels the choice. In the centre of the screen is "Start". 


6 OFFICES. Each contender has a very distinctive office, though all 
of them have the following in identical positions: 
* big map of India, 
* book (or equivalent) to show details of the current selected state, 
* bell (or equivalent) to summon a servant, 
* large picture of the contender at one side. 
* space for the Durbah/talk/attack windows. 

Offices have spot animations, ten icons for each of infrastructure, 
fighting spirit, law and order, and income, seven religious for 
religion, and flags etc for the map. 


                         LINKING SCREENS  

Arcade games are typically sandwiched between a pair of "static" 
screens, and further such screens accompany major events. The full 
list of such screens is ...

"Club scene" for European requests for you to do something 
"Bazaar scene" for Indian requests for the same. This may also be 
                     used as background if you lose.  

"Marquee/Grandstand scene" to introduce most active sports. This has 
several slight variations for: 
* Mounting elephants before the tiger hunt, or elephant race 
* Ordering elephants before the Durbah 
* Collecting a trophy, as after winning a match at e.g Wembley, 
  after the sport. 

"Rebellion Scene" window opening upon office, or 
"Army Battle" window, or 
"Long view of battered city" to introduce the (re) capture city game. 

"Walk to throne scene" after the city is captured, or after you are 
                     married to an Indian princess. 

"Long view of Thug temple" in the jungle, before the final temple 
                     capture game. 

"Fireworks over the Taj Mahal" when you control India. 

"Awake, attacked scene", showing a black-robed assassin staring at 
                     the screen and about to use his strangle cord. 
"Bedroom scene", used as one background for the Grange-style 
                     swordfight game and, overlayed by a window, 
                     to show the princess starting to disrobe. 



                         ARCADE GAMES 


Some arcade games start with an introductory sequence; others go 
straight into the action. In either case, when the player is first 
expected to control the game, a text window is opened upon the 
game screen, with the head of the contender (cf "cast menu") and 
explanatory instructions. 

TIGER HUNT: one screen, with current contender in foreground, as 
      described in the design. Plus a close-up of the snarling 
      tiger, opening its mouth to bite you. 

ELEPHANT RACE: top-down view of scrolling racetrack, between two 
      grandstands with tiny animated onlookers. The elephants are 
      very big in comparison, the the race is intended to resemble 
      the chariot race in Ben Hur. 

ARMY BATTLE: where the result is a foregone conclusion, a window 
      showing close-up hand-to-hand fighting soldiers is opened 
      upon the office, to report the result. 

      Close battles use a variety of landscape sections to build 
      us a landscape, plus tiny soldiers to fight across it. 

CAPTURING THE PALACE: graphics sequence of splendid town, with 
      cannons breaking down its gates, followed by components to 
      allow us to make up perhaps 8 random screens of sideways- 
      scrolling ruins. I propose to go for an Adept-style top-down 
      view, with small contenders and opposing Indian peasants. 
      The final goal is the palace gate. A final screen shows the 
      contender (from the side) walking along a (left/right) red 
      carpet to accept the surrender of the opposing prince. There 
      are slightly different versions to suit e.g the surrender of 
      the different contenders.  

CAPTURING THUG TEMPLE: Doors of Kali temple grind open. The game 
      screens are as "Capturing the Palace", but some of the 
      scenery is more temple-like and the defenders are religious 
      Thug fanatics throwing knives. The final goal is a jewel, 
      guarded by an animated 8-armed statue of Kali. The whole 
      game then ends with fireworks over the Taj Mahal. 

SWORDFIGHT: Thus has Grange-scale figures, with 3 backgrounds: 
      * Riverside with bonfire, for Suttee rescue; 
      * Bedroom (shares graphics with other pictures); 
      * Palace (ditto). 
      If you rescue the princess, there are windows with her 
      father's head and hers, followed by a l-r wedding procession 
      through the palace. 

ASSASSINATION: Effects picture of assassins attacking you in bed. 
      Then a swordfight as above, in the bedroom. 

DURBAH: Elephants, the same size as on the loading screen, process 
      through a crowd across the screen. 

CLOSE-UP office map: twice the dimensions of the existing one. 
      They have exactly the same borders, but are more detailed. 