










  CHAMPION OF THE RAJ CHANGES. Copyright (C) 2 July 90 by Level 9 

The Level 9/Mirrorsoft meeting on 21 June produced many suggestions 
for improvements. The main ones were that the game should be sexier, 
not take itself too seriously, and disguise the time taken to load 
overlays; and that the swordfight game must not be a "joystick bash". 

Specific changes are as follows: 

1) More narrators. A beautiful princess and her guru grandfather also 
   narrate events: she is an alternative to the Indian clerk in the 
   office, while the guru takes over Indian events from the bazaar. 
   The British soldier still reports "European" events from his club. 
   * In the introduction, the princess helps the hero escape from 
     the Thug dungeon, taking him to meet her grandfather who 
     explains the need to unify India and defeat the Thugs. (Scene 
     7 has the princess added, and the original scene 9 is replaced 
     by a close-up of princess and ancient sage in his hermitage). 
   * In the game, one of the narrators (but usually the princess) 
     periodically relates background information. A window opens, 
     with text on one side and the animated narrator on the other. 
   * The guru helps to disguise the time to load sub-games. His face 
     is displayed, initially with instructions for play, and 
     thereafter with one of his many wise sayings to read. 
   * The princess adds glamour. She is e.g rescued from the Thugs in 
     a swordfight game, and stars in the marriage scene. 

2) Sex is introduced to the game (see later for notes) by means of: 
   * Princess as narrator: beautiful, scantily-clad and animated. 
   * Miscellaneous Kama Sutra carvings in the background scenery. 
   * A bedroom scene is added, where the hero has the option to be 
     seduced by a female "slave girl", who undresses in silhouette. 
     This is one lead-in to an "assassination" swordfight.  
   * The "marriage" scenes occur later, and are spiced up. 
   * Very occasionally (perhaps once per twelve hours) someone who 
     regularly but briefly appears, such as the waiter in the 
     clubroom who walks across the screen, is replaced by a nude girl. 
     The aim is to start rumours about this event, because only a few 
     players will see her. A secret control sequence, to make her 
     appear all the time, could be leaked to the press later. 
   * "Capturing the Palace" has slavegirls added, who run about the 
     place. They are non-combatants and cannot be shot. 
   * "Capturing the Thug Temple" has lots of nude statues, and the 
     final "Kali" adversary is topless. 
   * The "Suttee" game is changed so that the Princess is initially 
     held by a group of Thugs. When the second of them goes to fight 
     the hero, she wriggles free but leaves much of her clothing 
     behind and escapes semi-naked, before grabbing minimal protection 
     and returning to act as a cheerleader at the side. She escapes 
     regardless of the hero's fate. 
The aim is for cartoon eroticism (cf "Red", Jane, or St Trinians), 
rather than "digitised" pictures (which I think work poorly on 
computer, and to space out nude scenes throughout the game. 

3) The swordfight game is changed to a less frantic control method, 
   while looking better and simulating combat more accurately. 
   * By default, the hero and his thug opponent attack and parry 
     each other's blows roughly alternately. So the scene resembles 
     a proper battle even if a novice (or nobody) is playing. 
   * Control is by moving a cursor across a 3*3 grid: left-right are 
     attack/stand/retreat, and up-down are high/middle/low blows. 
     Your choice of attack/stand/retreat affects the probability of 
     each parry working (retreating is best, but the hero can only 
     retreat so far) and you press FIRE to replace the next computer- 
     selected blow-or-parry by your currently chosen blow. Each 
     opponent is more vulnerable to one attack type than the others, 
     and your aim is to learn these weaknesses and exploit them. 
   * The hero wins if he defeats all the attacking Thugs without 
     suffering too many wounds. 
     
4) Miscellaneous: 
   * I will look again at the less memorable Indian names.  
   * Beaters who get shot in the tiger game are wounded, not killed. 
   * More humour will be added (e.g in background animations). 
